{"pmc_id":"PMC466975","category":["Focus"],"title":{"_VALUE":["Vulnerable fishes, inattentive humans"]},"authors":["Franks, Becca"],"publication_date":"2024-07-19","body_text":"Near the end of summer 1962, Robert Pierre André Sténuit became the world’s first aquanaut. For 24 consecutive hours, he lived off the coast of the French Riviera in a cylindrical submersible, 60 m beneath the surface of the Mediterranean. Less than a year later, Jacques Cousteau shattered Sténuit’s record, residing in a small “village” with five other aquanauts on the Sudanian Shab Rumi reef, for 30 days. Since then, about 700 people have earned the title aquanaut, among them a variety of astronauts as well as ocean conservation luminaries such as Sylvia Earle.\n\nAs impressive as these expeditions are, they simultaneously administer a sobering reality. When it comes to life underwater, we operate in a veritable vacuum of information. Humanity’s direct experience with marine life is trifling: 111 days—the longest anyone has spent continuously submerged according to Guinness World Records—is less than 0.5% of a typical human lifetime. And yet, these slivers of time underwater pack a punch. They have dramatically expanded knowledge, inspired millions, and deepened appreciation for the complexity, fragility, resilience, and mystery of life below the surface of the sea.\n\nFurther expanding such attention to and care for aquatic life—its ecosystems, species, populations, cultures ( ), and individuals ( )—is urgently needed as a bulwark against looming devastation. Industrial encroachment into the oceans began centuries ago and, with a few notable exceptions (e.g., the International Whaling Commission’s moratorium spelling the end of industrial whaling), has increased steadily since. Compounded by a litany of other threats including habitat loss and fragmentation, warming, acidification, diminished oxygenation from climate change, and an array of pollutants such as plastics and noise ( ), the loss of marine life is likely to accelerate ( ); likely, that is, without well-placed intervention.\n\nIn this issue of , Mouquet ( ) leverage large data sets from real-time online sources to ask the crucial question: To what degree is global attention trained on those marine species at greatest risk from anthropogenic threats? For international environmental protection to be effective, both a foundation of scientific knowledge and broad public engagement are critical. Without either one, policy responses will be weak, unpopular, or nonexistent. And, given the relatively low baseline of knowledge about marine species ( ) and our paucity of direct experience with marine life, assessing attention, or lack thereof, to at-risk marine species is of particular value for coordinating collective ocean conservation action.\n\nFocusing on 2408 species of reef fishes, Mouquet operationalize global attention with two cleverly constructed indicator variables. First, to capture scientific interest, they aggregated data from Scopus, Google, Web of Science, FishBase ( ), and the National Center for Biotechnology Information to create a composite measure of research effort. Second, they gathered engagement metrics for each species from an array of freely available online resources: X [formerly Twitter (tweets, retweets, and likes)], Flickr (number of images), and Wikipedia (page views in 10 languages) and created a composite measure of global public attention. These two measures of human interest (research effort and public attention) were correlated ( = 0.65) and varied substantially by species. Some fish species received a great deal of attention across the board and others attracted little ( ).\n\nThe authors then used a variety of species-level characteristics—attributes and human use indicators for each species—to predict variability in each composite measure. By far, the strongest predictor of interest was a species’ geographic range. Wide-ranging species generally attracted greater interest, explaining 50% of the variability in research effort and 47% of the variability in public attention. After range, however, the main determinants of interest diverged. The second and third most important predictors of research effort were use in fisheries and aquaculture, accounting for 12 and 8% of the variability in research effort, respectively. The second and third most important predictors of public attention, in contrast, were a quantitative indicator of human aesthetic preference and use in the aquarium trade, accounting for 21 and 13% of the variability in public attention, respectively.\n\nHowever, the species exposed to the greatest anthropogenic threats did not tend to attract higher research effort nor did they tend to attract higher public attention. Two independent analyses found the opposite pattern. Species classified by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red list as “threatened” received significantly less research effort and public attention than species classified as “least concern.” Similarly, species predicted to be most vulnerable in a climate risk vulnerability index received significantly less research effort and public attention than species predicted to be less vulnerable to climate change. In other words, those species in the most need of coordinated conservation effort received the least amount of attention needed to support such efforts."}
