{"pmc_id":"PMC467086","category":["Review Article"],"title":{"_VALUE":["Metabolic modulation:","phosphoglucomutase is a target influencing host recognition"],"italic":[{"_VALUE":"Pneumocystis"}]},"authors":["Kottom, Theodore J.","Carmona, Eva M.","Lepenies, Bernd","Limper, Andrew H."],"publication_date":"2024-03-25","body_text":"is a fungus belonging to the phylum Ascomycota ( ). is one of the most common opportunistic pathogens in individuals with HIV infection ( ). While the advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy has decreased the incidence of Pneumocystis jirovecii Pneumonia (PJP) in HIV ( ); the incidence of non-HIV-infected patients with PJP appears to be increasing, and the mortality rate remains unacceptably high ( , ). The cell surface is decorated with β-1,3 and β-1,6 glucans along with the most abundant cell surface component of the organism, the major surface glycoprotein (MSG; also known as gpA) ( , , , , ). MSG is a glycoprotein complex that is not highly mannosylated, with the M5N2 being the predominant N- linked glycan present on MSG-proteins ( ). MSG is expressed on both cyst and trophic forms of the organism, but more abundantly present on the trophic stage ( ). MSG appears to be involved in attachment of the organism to alveolar epithelial cells, as well as to macrophages via binding to C-type lectin receptors (CLRs) including the mannose receptor (MR) ( , , ).\n\nRecently, we reported the presence and biochemical characterization of the and phosphoglucomutases (PGMs) in . Both PGMs complemented the 2Δ strain in similar fashion and also displayed similar phosphoglucomutase activity, indicating their substantial homology and cross function ( ). In yeast, PGMs are important for carbohydrate metabolism through the interconversion of glucose 1-phosphate (Glc-1-P) and glucose 6-phosphate (Glc-6-P), a vital step in UDP pools for β-glucan cell wall formation ( ). Less appreciated and understudied is the potential role of PGM activity on the expression of fungal surface mannoproteins. In this study, we analyzed the ability of the cDNA expressed in the 2Δ strain versus the yeast wild- type counterpart to bind a panel of hFc fusion C-type lectin receptor (CLR) carbohydrate recognition domains (CRDs), as well as the binding of these yeast constructs to the mouse macrophage RAW cell line. As shows of the four Fc-fusion CRD proteins tested, the -null yeast was significantly altered in the ability to bind the mannose receptor (MR) CRD as compared to the wild-type and restored counterparts ( ). Furthermore, the deleted yeast were similarly defective in their ability to bind the RAW macrophage cell line ( ). Analysis of the yeast cell wall composition by Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectroscopy (GC–MS) revealed that the 2Δ yeast strain contains 2-3X less mannose than the wild-type and complemented cDNA-expressing counterparts ( A, ).\n\nIn addition to the importance of PGM in yeast during glucan synthesis from donor uridine diphosphate glucose, with the conversion of glucose-6-phosphate to glucose-1-phosphate by the enzyme ( ), PGM also has an important role in the dolichol glucosyl phosphate biosynthetic pathway and in the synthesis of Dol-P-glucose ( ), which can serve as a substate for the glycosyltransferases Alg6p and Alg8p ( ). These glycosyltransferases are vital for proper cell wall mannan biosynthesis in as well as in ( ). Our data presented here further provide evidence for the importance of PGM activity in proper yeast cell wall mannoprotein formation. Although as mentioned above, the most abundant N- linked glycan configuration is the M5N2 configuration in , the organism does contain minor amounts of longer mannan chains as long as M9N2 ( ). Others have reported that contains highly complexed branch mannans ( , ), and we recently demonstrated that an MR Fc fusion could bind these yeast mannan to a significant degree ( ). Our results suggest that fungal PGMs are highly conserved and can function in the formation of both short as well as extended/complex N-linked glycan outer chain formation. Therefore, specifically targeting fungal PGMs might be an attractive therapeutic option against fungal pathogens. For example, recently, a specific inhibitor targeting the PGM ( PGM) termed ISFP10 with a IC50 value of 2 μM and 50-fold selectivity against the human PGM homolog has been reported ( ) and also used by our lab to show significant reduction in PmPgm2 activity in vitro ( ). In ; this small molecule targets the cysteine at amino acid position 353 (C353) of the PGM, which is absent from the PGM enzyme, accounting for the inhibitor’s selectivity ( ). Protein alignments of this region from ten of the top WHO fungal priority pathogen ( ) PGM enzymes show conservation of this cysteine across 8 of the 10 fungal pathogens ( B, red box), with only substitution of the amino acid from both of the spp's. These results suggest targeting fungal PGM proteins with such specific inhibitors and thus affecting downstream synthesis of nascent β-glucan and N-linked mannoprotein formation might be a viable therapeutic strategy against a broad spectrum of fungal pathogens.\n\nTwo experiments and an analysis of the yeast cell wall composition were performed. All yeast experiments were conducted with yeast grown in 2 % galactose URA- minimal media to induce the pYES2.1/ or pYES2.1/ (control) vectors, respectively ( ). First, to determine the percent binding of select hFc-fusion carbohydrate recognition binding domains (CRDs) to the respective yeast strain, 2.0 µg per well of native yeast protein lysate were deposited onto 96-well microtiter plates and left to incubate at 4 °C overnight. The next day, plates underwent three washes with 100 µl PBS-Tween (PBS-T). Subsequently, wells were blocked with PBS/10 % FBS/2.5 % milk at 4 °C for 2 h. After three additional washes with PBS-T, CLR hFc- fusion proteins (200 ng) ( ) in lectin binding buffer (LBB) (50 mM HEPES, 5 mM MgCl2, and 5 mM CaCl2) were incubated in the plate wells for 2 h at 4 °C. Following this, a 1:1000 dilution factor of HRP goat anti-human antibody (SouthernBiotech) in blocking buffer was applied for 1 h at 4 °C. Finally, after washing the plates three times with 1X PBS-T, 1X TMB substrate was added for 20 min at room temperature, followed by stopping the reaction with 2.0 M H2SO4. The plates were then analyzed using a VERSAmax microplate reader (Molecular Devices) at 450 nm. To analyze yeast construct binding to RAW macrophages, 2 x 10 cells were plated in duplicate in a 96 well microtiter plate and incubated for 1.5 h at 37 °C/5%C02. Next, yeast cells were added to the RAW cells at ∼ 1:1 ratio. The plates were centrifuged at 500 x g to synchronize infection and allowed to incubate for 30 min. After 30 min, wells were washed 3 times with 1X PBS (200 ul/well), lysed with RIPA buffer incubation for 10 min and 50 ul plated onto 2 % galactose URA- minimal media plates and CFUs counted. Analysis of yeast cell wall composition by gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy was performed as similar to previously described ( ). For protein alignments of the human PGM ortholog as well as the fungal PGM pathogens, MacVector version 18.6.4 (38) was utilized."}
