{"pmc_id":"MGR-14-145","category":["Perspective"],"title":{"_VALUE":["Neuroprotective effects of hydrogen sulfide in Parkinson’s disease"]},"authors":["Ye, Yang","Xu, Jinhui","Shen, Haitao","Yu, Zhengquan","Chen, Gang"],"body_text":"Hydrogen sulfide (H S) has been considered to be a toxic gas with a rotten egg smell for decades. However, over the past two decades, many studies have shown that H S has many pathological and physiological effects on mammalian body systems as a third endogenous gaseous mediator along with carbon monoxide and nitric oxide. H S is a sulfur analog of water molecules in structure and can be oxidized to the elements sulfur, thiosulfate, sulfate, and sulfur dioxide.\n\nLow dose and controlled release of hydrogen sulfide can improve the function of a variety of immune cells and protect them from dysfunction caused by various harmful stimuli, such as reactive oxygen species (ROS) or oxidized low-density lipoprotein. These effects of H S help maintain immune function, stimulate antibacterial defense and play an anti-inflammatory role in various diseases. Studies show neuroprotective function of H S in several central nervous system diseases including Parkinson’s disease (PD), ischemic stroke, traumatic brain injury and Alzheimer’s disease. Both and H S has been demonstrated to exert antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic effects under pathological conditions. H S promotes the induction of long-term enhancement in the hippocampus by enhancing the activity of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, and then forms a synaptic model of memory. H S can also increase the concentration of Ca in glial cells, induce Ca waves and mediate the transmission of glial signals. H S significantly reduced the severity of neuroinflammation in the rat model of traumatic brain injury and restored the neurotrophic factors that characterize the secondary events of traumatic brain injury. Endogenous H S synthesis decreases after intracerebral hemorrhage, and H S can reduce secondary brain injury caused by neuroinflammatory response by inhibiting P2X7 receptor. After intracerebral hemorrhage, sodium hydrogen sulfide (NaHS) supplementation can increase the production of endogenous H S. In the Morris water maze test, H S reduces brain edema, lesion volume and neurological deficit after intracerebral hemorrhage.\n\nPD is the second most common neurodegenerative disease after Alzheimer’s disease. According to statistics, approximately 2% of the global population over the age of 65 years is affected by PD. The number of patients is expected to increase from 8.7 million to 9.3 million by 2030. High-risk factors for PD include consumption of dairy products, exposure to pesticides, history of melanoma, and traumatic brain injury, while caffeine, smoking, physical activity, higher serum urate concentrations, and use of ibuprofen and other common medications can reduce the incidence of the disease. Typical symptoms of PD include bradykinesia, rigidity, postural instability and resting tremor. The main pathological mechanism of these symptoms is the massive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The typical pathological features of PD are the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and the accumulation of misfolded α-synuclein, which is present in intracytoplasmic inclusions called Lewy bodies. In general, the first-class drug for PD is levodopa, but it only improves the symptoms, not the loss of dopaminergic neurons. One possible mechanism is oxidative stress-induced neuronal loss, including oxidation of levodopa, and the other is neurotoxins produced by activated microglia and astrocytes. Treatment for PD is symptomatic, with an emphasis on improving nonmotor (e.g., cognition, mood, sleep, constipation) and motor (e.g., rigidity, tremor, bradykinesia) signs and symptoms. There is no drug treatment that improves the disease. Therefore, it is important to develop effective therapeutic drugs or strategies that can reverse disease progression. Various and PD models have demonstrated that supplementation of H S reverses the loss of dopaminergic neurons and attenuates dyskinesia in PD patients.\n\nThe expression of H S-catalyzed enzymes in the cardiovascular system, neuronal system, immune system, renal system, respiratory system, gastrointestinal system, reproductive system, liver system and endocrine system varies widely. The synthesis of endogenous H S in mammals mainly depends on three enzymes including cystathionine β synthase (CBS), cystathionine γ-lyase (CSE) and 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfur transferase, which convert cysteine or cysteine derivatives into H S in different tissues and organs. CSE and CBS are key enzymes in the reverse transsulfuration pathway, which results in sulfur transfer from homocysteine to cysteine. CSE and CBS generate H S through several different reactions. CSE can use homocysteine or cysteine to produce H S with the help of 5-neneneba pyridoxal phosphate. CBS produces H S not only through cysteine, but also through the combination of cysteine and homocysteine. CBS can also produce H S from homocysteine alone, but the enzyme activity of CBS is inhibited when homocysteine levels are high. 3-Mercaptopyruvate sulfur transferase works with cysteine aminotransferase to produce H S. CBS is found primarily in cerebellar Bergmann glia and astrocytes in the brain. Transforming growth factor-α, epidermal growth factor, cyclic adenosine phosphate and dexamethasone promote CBS expression in astrocytes. In addition, S-adenosyl methionine as a CBS activator can also promote the enzymatic production of H S. One study showed that in the central nervous system, CBS was highly expressed only in astrocytes compared to microglia and neurons. astrocytes synthesize H S 7.57 times faster than microglia. A study by Li et al. found that H S improves silent information regulator 1 activity by accelerating SIRT sulfation, thereby increasing autophagic flux and attenuating 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium-induced damage in SH-SY5Y cells. H S acts as a neuromodulator and alters hippocampal long-term potentiation by selectively enhancing N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated currents in a memory synapse model. Physiological concentrations of H S increase cyclic adenosine phosphate production with downstream effects on camp stimulated intracellular pathways in brain cells, neurons and glial cell lines. H S induces calcium waves/elevation in both astrocytes and microglia.\n\n\n\nOxidative stress is the result of ROS-mediated damage to biological macromolecules and is a major factor in inflammation, cardiovascular diseases, neurodegenerative diseases, diabetes, atherosclerosis, aging, etc. Oxidative phosphorylation is a major energy source for many cells, and endogenous ROS are by-products of oxidative phosphorylation. ROS are generated when oxidative phosphorylation is inefficient, resulting in oxidative stress that affects mitochondrial metabolism. In the central nervous system, oxidative stress leads to protein oxidation, lipid peroxidation, and mitochondrial DNA mutations that lead to neuronal cell death. Glutathione is a major intracellular antioxidant, and oxidative stress reduces its concentration. H S supplements glutathione levels, especially reduced glutathione, by increasing the activity of cystine/glutamate antiporters and cysteine transporters, thereby increasing the intracellular concentration of cysteine, which is the substrate for the production of glutathione. H S produced in mitochondria can directly inhibit oxidative stress. In a study by Tang et al., 1-methy-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+) promoted the production of ROS, particularly superoxide anion, and H S attenuated MPP+-induced ROS accumulation. Inhibition of CBS activity and H S production promotes ROS accumulation. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase produces neurotoxic oxidative stress, which is commonly thought to be involved in neurodegenerative diseases. A study by Hu et al. in 2010 found that H S can reduce 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced ROS production through inhibiting nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase, thereby protecting neurons from 6-OHDA-induced damage. MPP+ induced SH-SY5Y cells to produce a large number of oxidative stress related factors such as malondialdehyde and ROS, while NaHS pretreatment could antagonize the increase in ROS and malondialdehyde levels. The levels of reduced glutathione and superoxide dismutase decreased after MPP+ induction. NaHS pretreatment could significantly reduce the consumption of glutathione induced by MPP .\n\nA study by Jiao et al. in 2019 found that H S significantly reduced the expression of Caspase 3 and Caspase 9 by inhibiting the activation of the nuclear factor kappa-B signaling pathway and the release of cytokines in PD rats, thereby reducing cell apoptosis. Lu et al. found that H S reversed the up-regulated protein expression of glucose-regulated protein 78, C/EBP homologous protein, and Caspase 12 in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated mice. However, these apoptosis-related proteins were still up-regulated when uncoupling protein 2 was knocked out. Caspase 3 and Bcl-2/Bax ratio are both important biomarkers for evaluating MPP mediated apoptosis. Activated Caspase 3 is a key molecule in apoptosis and is involved in growth stimulation. After treatment with MPP+, the activity of Caspase 3 was up-regulated and the Bcl-2/Bax ratio was decreased. Pretreatment with 200 μM NaHS significantly reduced MPP -induced Caspase 3 activity and prevented the reduction of Bcl-2/Bax ratio. Hu et al. found that H S can inhibit apoptosis by regulating K-ATP channel/p38- and c-Jun N-terminal kinase/ mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways in rotenone-induced PD model .\n\nNeuroscientists found a link between brain degeneration and persistent inflammation after collecting data from studies in the general field of neurodegenerative diseases. Classical activation of microglia (resident mononuclear phagocytes of the central nervous system) has been observed in the brains of patients with PD and can be experimentally triggered by alpha-synuclein. Although activation of microglia is required to maintain the integrity of the central nervous system, unregulated inflammatory responses and the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and ROS can also lead to neurotoxicity, such as reduced neurogenesis, resulting in neuronal loss and altered neuronal patterns of synaptic plasticity. NaSH (H S donor) not only inhibited the up-regulated expression of microglial activation marker ED-1 in PD rats, but also reduced the accumulation of rotenone-induced inflammatory factors including NO (NO and NO ) and tumor necrosis factor-α in rat striatum. Therefore, NaHS may inhibit the progression of PD by reducing microglia activation. 1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine increased the number of activated microglias and astrocytes in the substantia nigra and, in the striatum, the number of activated microglias. Inhalation of H S prevented 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced activation of microglia and astrocytes. H S reduces the activation of microglia, astrocytes and inflammatory factors released by THP-1 and U373 cell lines, including tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-6 and nitric oxide. H S released from L-dopa hybrid molecule also inhibits monoamine oxidase B activity. Therefore, the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects of H S may have a therapeutic effect on PD.\n\nXie et al. found that H S significantly reduced 6-OHDA-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress responses, including upregulation of eukaryotic initiation factor-2a phosphorylation levels, glucose-regulated protein 78 and C/EBP homologous protein expression. H S inhibits endoplasmic reticulum stress primarily by blocking Akt activity with Akt inhibitors or by inhibiting heat shock protein 90 with geldanamycin. The decrease in Akt activity also reduced the protein abundance of heat shock protein 90 in SH-SY5Y cells. Therefore, H S may reduce the damage caused by 6-OHDA-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress through the Akt-heat shock protein 90 pathway. Glucose-regulated protein 78 and C/EBP homologous protein are endoplasmic reticulum stress-related proteins. Minaei et al. confirmed by immunohistochemistry and western blot that 6-OHDA causes high expression of these two cells in rat striatum, and NaHS treatment can reduce the overexpression of these proteins by more than 60% ( ).\n\nAlthough H S has neuroprotective effects and is a promising treatment for central neurodegenerative diseases, there are still many difficulties before it can be put into clinical use. Many studies have shown that H S has beneficial effects at physiological concentrations, but harmful effects at higher concentrations. Therefore, the treatment window of H S is narrow, and it is difficult to maintain a relatively stable concentration of H S in the brain. Several inhibitors of H S synthesis in common use today, such as AOAA and hydroxylamine, are not specific to H S biosynthesis and may be involved in other physiological functions. Although H S has been shown to be beneficial in PD rat models, specific concentrations of H S in the rat substantia nigra and striatum are currently difficult to detect.\n\nCurrently commonly used H S donors are aqueous solutions of sodium sulfide (Na S) and NaHS. However, the release H S from these sulfide salts is spontaneous and rapid, making the delivered concentration of H S difficult to control. Several synthetic donors capable of releasing H S under physiological conditions have been reported to be developed but have not yet been used in PD-related studies.\n\nIncreasing evidence has shown that H S has a neuroprotective effect on many degenerative diseases of the central nervous system, such as PD. PD is the second most common neurodegenerative disease in the world. Currently, drug treatment focuses mainly on symptom control and cannot effectively reverse the disease process. Therefore, it is very important to develop new treatment options. This article reviews the basic research on H S in PD in recent years. H S reduces or even reverses the apoptosis of dopaminergic neurons in animal models through anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic, and anti-oxidative stress, and improves behavioral function, indicating the therapeutic potential of H S. However, current technology cannot detect the concentration of H S in the substantia nigra and striatum in real time, nor can it allow the stable release of H S in the brain. There are still many difficulties to overcome before H S can be used in clinical practice.\n\n."}
{"pmc_id":"MGR-14-136","category":["Perspective"],"title":{"_VALUE":["Hypothesized mechanism of amelioration of colitis by","as a hydrogen-producing bacterium"],"italic":[{"_VALUE":"Clostridium butyricum","_toggle":"yes"}]},"authors":["Ichiakwa, Yusuke","Sato, Bunpei","Hirano, Shin-ichi","Takefuji, Yoshiyasu","Satoh, Fumitake"],"body_text":"Chronic inflammatory disease is an inflammatory bowel disease. Generally, the causes of chronic inflammatory bowel disease, including ulcerative colitis, are unknown. Recently, however, it has become clear that inflammatory colitis is closely related to hydrogen. The human intestine is an anaerobic environment with little or no oxygen from the large intestine to the cecum, although a small amount of oxygen leaks from the capillaries of the intestinal wall. There are countless anaerobic bacteria, descendants of primitive life on the ocean floor, that metabolize hydrogen based on the food we ingest. Among these anaerobic bacteria, hydrogen-producing bacteria possessing the enzyme hydrogenase produce more than 10 L of hydrogen gas per day from the human intestine. Hydrogen is an inert substance that does not react with nucleic acids, proteins, or lipids that make up cells, but can only react with hydroxyl radicals to convert them into water molecules. Since hydrogen is an inert substance and the product of the reaction with hydroxyl radicals is a water molecule, it is non-toxic to the cells that make up the organs and has no side effects like drugs. Hydrogen produced by hydrogen-producing bacteria in the intestines is thought to inhibit cell damage caused by hydroxyl radicals by scavenging the hydroxyl radicals produced in the process of aerobic respiration in human cells through this mechanism.\n\nOne of the causes of ulcerative colitis has been attributed to dietary changes. It has been proposed that the reason for the increasing number of patients with ulcerative colitis in Japan is the shift in the Japanese diet from plant-based foods to animal-based foods, mainly meat and dairy products. Retrospective studies in Europe have cited excessive consumption of high-fat diets, including processed meats, fried foods, and snacks, as a risk for the development of inflammatory bowel disease. In an epidemiologic analysis in Japan, the incidence of Crohn’s disease, which is closely related to ulcerative colitis, was inversely associated with vegetable protein intake ( –0.941, > 0.001), and a multivariate analysis showed that increased animal protein intake was the strongest independent factor in the incidence of Crohn’s disease. Multivariate analysis has shown that increased animal protein intake is the strongest independent factor in the development of Crohn’s disease. And even after the onset of inflammatory bowel disease, a low-fat diet is important for improving inflammatory bowel disease, as it has been reported that inflammatory biomarkers are significantly improved when a low-fat diet is continuously eaten compared to a high-fat diet intake group. In animal studies, it is known that diet composition modulates the barrier function of the intestinal mucosa in inflammatory bowel disease. Thus, although a close relationship between dietary changes and inflammatory bowel disease has been demonstrated, the more detailed mechanisms are not well understood. Therefore, we will discuss the mechanism by which the change in diet from phytophthora to animal foods has caused an increase in the number of patients with ulcerative colitis.\n\nFiber intake promotes intestinal fermentation and gas production. In fact, the most important gas among the various gases produced by intestinal fermentation is hydrogen, which has anti-inflammatory properties. Hydrogen-producing bacteria in the gut can generate hydrogen because they possess the enzyme hydrogenase. Since hydrogenase produces molecular hydrogen through the reduction reaction of hydrogen ions, the enzymatic reaction of hydrogenase requires the supply of electrons to hydrogen ions. The electrons required for the hydrogen-producing reaction of hydrogenases are supplied by nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide. In the intestine, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide is also produced when sugars produced by carbohydrate-digesting enzymes from dietary fiber ingested by humans and animals are converted to pyruvate in a glycolysis system that does not require oxygen, but also through metabolic pathways that utilize substances other than oxygen as electron acceptors. Therefore, the generation of hydrogen by hydrogen-producing bacteria is promoted by the intake of plant foods such as grains and fruits, which contain more polysaccharides and sugars, including dietary fiber, than animal foods.\n\nThis increase in intestinal hydrogen production may be the reason that plant-derived dietary fiber has been shown to suppress inflammation in ulcerative colitis. If the production of hydrogen by intestinal bacteria is promoted through the intake of plant foods, the amount of hydrogen produced in the intestine will also increase, promoting the elimination of hydroxyl radicals, which may prevent chronic inflammation including ulcerative colitis ( ). It has been reported that people who eat more fruits and vegetables have a 7–8% lower risk of dying within 20 years than those who do not. This is thought to be caused by the recent dietary shift from plant foods to animal foods, which has resulted in a decrease in the amount of hydrogen produced by hydrogen-producing bacteria in the intestines of modern people. This would also support the hypothesis that the same thing is responsible for the increase in chronic inflammatory diseases such as ulcerative colitis. Thus, in today’s society, where diets have shifted from plant-based foods to animal-based foods, an active external intake of hydrogen will be important in preventing the ever-increasing number of chronic inflammatory diseases.\n\nThere have been numerous reports on the improvement of ulcerative colitis by the ingestion of hydrogen in model animal experiments. Mice and rats treated with dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) are known as animal models of ulcerative colitis. When DSS is administered to mice or rats, it binds to medium-chain fatty acids present in the colon, induces inflammation, and causes colitis, thus reproducing a mechanism similar to ulcerative colitis in humans DSS. According to a recent report, administration of hydrogen-rich saline solution to mouse models of ulcerative colitis treated with DSS is reported to improve DSS-induced ulcerative colitis and significantly suppress the anaerobic environment of the colon, strengthening the intestinal barrier by modulating mucosa-associated mucolytic bacteria. and are predominant in a healthy colon, while are the predominant in an unhealthy gut. Hydrogen-producing bacteria metabolize hydrogen and produce energy for vital activities, so administration of hydrogen can increase their populations in the gut. and , which possess hydrogenase genes, increase their populations and dominate by metabolizing the administered hydrogen, thereby inhibiting the growth of , Hydrogen-producing bacteria can not only consume hydrogen but also produce hydrogen, as their name implies, so an increase in the number of hydrogen-producing bacteria also results in an increase in the amount of hydrogen in the intestine, thus maintaining a healthy intestinal environment.\n\nEfforts are underway to use fecal transplantation, in which intestinal bacteria collected from the stools of healthy adults are transplanted into patients with ulcerative colitis as a method of treating inflammatory bowel disease such as ulcerative colitis. A good balance of and composition is an indicator of an excellent microbial environment that healthy adults possess for fecal transplantation. It has been reported that the hydrogen-producing bacteria and are less abundant in patients with ulcerative colitis, and that the diversity of is increased in healthy adults. Although these reports do not mention that and are hydrogen-producing bacteria, they would support the importance of hydrogen-producing bacteria in the control and amelioration of inflammatory bowel disease. Perhaps increasing the number of hydrogen-producing bacteria, and , is important for the amelioration of ulcerative colitis.\n\nThe colon wall is composed of three layers: the mucus layer, the epithelium, and the intrinsic layer. The gelatinous mucus layer provides protection against pathogen invasion. , better known as butyric acid bacteria, is also hydrogen-producing bacteria classified in the phylum with hydrogenase. It has been shown that feeding to mice increases the antioxidant capacity of their serum, preserves the properties of their mucus layer, and protects them from colitis; and the butyric acid produced by is thought to contribute to this mechanism. And it is known that butyrate levels in the stools of patients with ulcerative colitis are lower than in healthy individuals. However, this is only the result of a reduction in butyric acid bacteria, and, we suspect that enhancement of the antioxidant capacity of the colon by may actually be due more to the contribution of hydrogen produced by than to butyric acid.\n\nDespite the fact that the mechanism of maintenance of the intestinal environment by hydrogen is known from animal experiments, there are no reports on the improvement of ulcerative colitis through hydrogen inhalation in humans. The improvement of ulcerative colitis by hydrogen can easily be confirmed by observing the abdominal pain and stool condition in patients themselves, without relying on examination by a physician. Therefore, we decided to recruit two patients with ulcerative colitis and confirm whether inhalation of hydrogen gas would show improvement in the patients.\n\n\n\nThe patient was a Japanese male who was 49 years old when he started hydrogen inhalation.\n\nHe developed ulcerative colitis in 2004. Symptoms were bloody stools, abdominal pain, and insomnia associated with abdominal pain. He continued going to the hospital to receive medication, but there was no improvement. When abdominal pain prevented him from sleeping, he took a sleep aid.\n\nOn October 29, 2019, the patient began inhalation of hydrogen gas for 3 hours per day using a hydrogen gas inhaler (MiZ Company Limited, MHG-2000a, Kamakura, Kanagawa, Japan) with hydrogen concentration 6–7% by volume, converted to 100% hydrogen at 140 mL/min. Inflammation was suppressed and the patient was able to stop taking steroids. Blood stools were eliminated within 1 week of inhalation. Ten days later, the patient was unable to sleep due to abdominal pain, but the abdominal pain subsided and he was able to sleep without taking any sleep aids. Hospital tests showed that there were no problems and the ulcerative colitis had improved on December 4, 2019.\n\nThe patient was a Japanese male, 60 years old, when he started hydrogen inhalation. He developed ulcerative colitis in January 2018. During defecation, there was a 50% chance of hemorrhage. Camera observation showed that the rectal area of the colon was covered with blood. Several polyps were found in the stomach. The patient was anemic and depressed due to bleeding. Body mass loss was observed. He was taking medications (Mesalazine) prescribed by his doctor but did not get any better.\n\nOn June 3, 2019, he started to use a hydrogen gas inhaler (MiZ Company Limited, MHG-2000a) with hydrogen concentration 6–7% by volume, converted to 100% hydrogen at 140 mL/min for 3 hours per day. During the 1 week of inhalation, there was no change in his bleeding, but he was able to sleep well. Because of the improved sleep, his energy returned and he felt rejuvenated. The amount of blood loss in his stools decreased and his health improved. The second week, lower bleeding was controlled and there was only a small amount of blood in the stools. The shape of stools also changed from liquid to solid and firm, and diarrhea was cured. The frequency of stools also returned to the state of before the onset of the disease. His mood also returned to the healthy state he was in before the onset of the disease. Two months later, bleeding was almost gone. Three months later, bleeding was gone and weight had increased to his pre-onset healthy state, so hydrogen gas inhalation was discontinued. There was no recurrence of ulcerative colitis after discontinuation of hydrogen gas inhalation. Camera observation also showed that the bloody and rough intestinal wall had healed nicely.\n\nThe study has obtained written informed consent from these patients.\n\nIf a deficiency of hydrogen produced by intestinal bacteria is the cause of ulcerative colitis, ulcerative colitis can be prevented and improved by actively taking in hydrogen from outside the body to better eliminate the hydroxyl radicals that are generated inside mitochondria in cells throughout the body. Regardless of the disease, the amount of hydrogen ingested by the patient is important in the improvement of diseases by hydrogen. There are rare reports that hydrogen does not improve disease, but this is because the amount of hydrogen ingested is too small. One way to ingest hydrogen is to drink hydrogen water, but there is a limit to the amount that can be consumed. Therefore, prolonged inhalation of hydrogen gas is the best way to take in more hydrogen.\n\nIn the two cases we were able to confirm in this study, improvement was observed with inhalation of hydrogen gas for 3 to 4 hours per day. This is the first report of improvement of ulcerative colitis by inhalation of hydrogen gas in humans. The only treatment available for ulcerative colitis in Western medicine is drug therapy. For example, steroids are often used, but steroids cause serious side effects such as adrenocortical insufficiency. Also, transplanting hydrogen-producing bacteria through fecal transplantation may be effective, but some people may resist the idea of having someone else’s feces transplanted into their body from a hygienic standpoint. However, since hydrogen is a substance with no side effects, it can be inhaled for a long period of time, and the intestinal microflora can be improved naturally. When clinical trials on hydrogen inhalation for ulcerative colitis are conducted in the future, it is expected that longer inhalation will lead to recovery from ulcerative colitis.\n\n."}
{"pmc_id":"MGR-14-156","category":["Perspective"],"title":{"_VALUE":["The role of sevoflurane in postoperative cognitive dysfunction"]},"authors":["Wang, Wenjie","Hu, Weiliang","Tian, Jinjie","Wang, Xuejian","Wang, Zhifeng"],"body_text":"Sevoflurane, a 200 dalton chemical molecule, is an inhalation anesthetic used for induction and maintenance of general anesthesia, which is used by a specially calibrated volatilizer. As with all inhalation anesthetics, sevoflurane can cause dose-related cardiorespiratory hypofunction. Nausea and vomiting are the most common postoperative adverse effects, and other frequent adverse effects include hypotension, bradycardia, and cough. Relatively rare adverse effects include elevation of aspartate aminotransferases and acute renal failure. However, there are few reports of neurological effects after surgery, particularly postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD).\n\nPOCD is a central nervous system complication that occurs after surgery, especially in the elderly, manifested as changes in personality, social skills, cognitive abilities and skills, and degeneration of intellectual functions such as memory and concentration decline. The pathogenesis of POCD mainly involves neuroinflammatory response caused by microglial activation, calcium overload-induced mitochondrial damage, and neuronal apoptosis due to oxidative stress, all of which affect hippocampal function, resulting in a series of cognitive dysfunction.\n\nTherefore, we attempt to elucidate the mechanism, related signaling pathways, and molecular regulation of sevoflurane-induced POCD based on existing literature reports. This will help to identify possible treatments to reduce the incidence of POCD and improve the prognosis of POCD, thereby optimizing the sevoflurane anesthesia program, reducing patient discomfort, and improving the quality of life of patients.\n\nThe mechanism of sevoflurane-induced POCD is still not well understood, and researchers explore its related molecular and pathway changes mainly through basic experiments, and the mechanism is mostly close to neuroinflammation and neuronal apoptosis ( and ). After treating elderly mice with sevoflurane, Chai et al. found that the level of acidic leucine-rich nuclear phosphoprotein-32A protein increased, which inhibited the acetylation of histones H3K18 and H3K14, thereby preventing H3K18 and H3K14 from binding to GluN2B and GluN2A promoters, causing a decrease in synapse-related protein expression, and finally leading to POCD. It can be seen that the integrity and plasticity of neuronal synaptic function are of great significance in POCD. He et al. found that after treatment with sevoflurane, methyltransferase-like 3 phosphorylation in hippocampal tissue may be inactivated by inhibiting the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway, resulting in perturbation in m6A (N6-methyladenosine) RNA methylation, which causes pathogenesis in POCD. Sleep disorders can aggravate the occurrence of POCD. Shen et al. found that after sevoflurane was used to treat sleep-deprived rats, the level of salt-induced kinase 3 in the brain tissue increased, which made the levels of phosphorylation- and total-tau rise, and the level of acetylation decreased, thereby causing POCD. It can be seen that this pathophysiological process involves the salt-induced kinase 3 signaling pathway. In mouse hippocampal primary neuronal experiments, Zhu and Ma found that the levels of inflammatory indicators interleukin-6, interleukin-10 and tumor necrosis factor-α increased after treating neurons with sevoflurane. The mechanism was that sevoflurane activated Hoxa5, thereby upregulating long non-coding RNA Gm5106 and directly targeting the anti-inflammatory molecule miRNA-27-3p. Similarly, Cheng et al. found that in SH-SY5Y cells, sevoflurane intervention caused elevated acyl-coenzyme A synthetase long chain family member 4 expression. Downregulation of acyl-coenzyme A synthetase long chain family member 4 alleviates sevoflurane-induced ferroptotic cell death, and in-depth exploration shows that acyl-coenzyme A synthetase long chain family member 4 is involved in sevoflurane-induced ferroptotic cell death through the adenosine 3'-monophosphate-activated protein kinase/mammalian target of rapamycin pathway. In a study related to ferroptotic cell death, Ge et al. treated old mice with sevoflurane, and iron overload occurred in mouse brain tissue, resulting in oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction, which in turn led to glucose metabolism disorders. At the same time, sevoflurane also inhibits oxygen uptake and glucose absorption. In this way, the cross-dysfunction of iron and glucose causes apoptosis of cortical and hippocampal neurons through the Bcl/Bax pathway. Mind bomb-2 is also an important molecule involved in ferroptotic cell death, which significantly rises in mouse hippocampal tissues after treatment with sevoflurane. Knockdown of mind bomb-2 expression reduces neuronal death and ferroptotic cell death by the fact that lowering mind bomb-2 levels reduces binding to glutathione peroxidase 4, thereby reducing glutathione peroxidase 4 degradation and enhancing glutathione peroxidase 4 stability. MicroRNAs also play an important role in the pathogenesis of sevoflurane-induced POCD, particularly in relation to the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway. Zhao et al. found that miR-124, which had the effect of preventing apoptosis and inflammatory response through the NF-κB signaling pathway, was inhibited in hippocampal neurons after the intervention of sevoflurane in mice. However, another microRNA has an exacerbating effect on the sevoflurane-induced inflammatory response. Wei et al. found that miR-182-5p, which could be released by plasma exosomes, rose in the rat POCD model. Inhibition of plasma exosomes and miR-182-5p could relieve learning and memory impairment, reduce the level of inflammatory factors, upregulate neurotrophic factors, and inhibit NF-kB pathway. In addition, studies have shown that mitochondrial autophagy is also involved in the pathogenesis of POCD, and sevoflurane treatment can inhibit mitochondrial oxidative respiratory chain and autophagy flow, which will cause changes in mitochondrial morphology and affect mitochondrial autophagy function, thereby causing cognition-related disorders.\n\nIn a neonatal rat experiment, Zhu et al. found that USP1-associated factor 1 inhibits the degradation of NOD-like receptor protein 3 through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, which can aggravate sevoflurane-induced POCD. Therefore, downregulation of USP1-associated factor 1 reduces cognitive impairment. Mao et al. conducted a study using wild-type C57BL/6 mice and protrophic factor knockout mice treated with sevoflurane. The study revealed that the presence of multi-acting proteins can worsen sevoflurane-induced learning dysfunction. However, the knockout of multi-acting proteins and the use of multi-acting protein receptor inhibitors can help mitigate sevoflurane-induced neuroinflammation as well as cognitive and learning dysfunction. This suggests that pleiotrophin plays a detrimental role in the pathogenesis of POCD. However, in a separate study, researchers aimed to create an aged rat model of POCD using sevoflurane anesthesia. They found that overexpression of C1q/tumor necrosis factor-related protein-3 had beneficial effects such as inhibiting cell apoptosis, reducing inflammation, minimizing brain tissue damage, and improving cognitive impairment. These effects were achieved by regulating two key pathways: adenosine triphosphate-activated protein kinase/SIRT1 and phosphoinositol 3-kinase/AKT. Studies have shown that miR-140-3p can negatively target DNA methyltransferase-1 to reduce 5-hydroxytryp-tamine receptor 2A promoter methylation, which upregulates 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A expression and activates the extracellular signal-regulated kinase/Nrf2 pathway, thereby improving neuronal survival and reducing sevoflurane-induced POCD. In addition, long non-coding RNA Rian can also play a protective role in neurons by regulating the miR-143-3p/LIM domain kinase 1 axis. It can be seen that the molecular regulation involved in sevoflurane-induced POCD is very extensive. Therefore, it is also important and urgent to select the appropriate target to manage POCD.\n\nAt present, there is no mature treatment for POCD, and the reported treatment methods are limited to animal experiments. We hope that the approach compiled will provide guidance and ideas for further treatment options. Peng et al. found that cistanche, a Chinese herbal medicine, can play a role of antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic and anti-microglial activation by activating the PPAR signaling pathway, thereby alleviating sevoflurane-induced neuroinflammation and improving hippocampus-dependent memory loss. Chikusetsu saponin IVa, another active ingredient derived from traditional Chinese medicine, could alleviate neurological dysfunction by inhibiting the NOD-like receptor protein 3/ caspase-1 pathway to reduce apoptosis and neuroinflammation. Carnosol, extracted from rosemary, can also reduce sevoflurane-induced neuroinflammation, prevent microglial activation, and inhibit apoptosis, mainly by regulating the NF-kB pathway. In the rat POCD model, Wei et al. found that dexmedetomidine, a clinically commonly used sedative, promotes neuroactivity and reduces apoptosis by upregulating miR-129 levels that targets inhibition of Toll-like receptor 4 and NF-κB p65 phosphorylation. Glucagon-like peptide 1 analog liraglutide, a new type of hypoglycemic drug, has been found to improve spatial learning and memory ability of aged rats after sevoflurane anesthesia, and play an anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory effect in hippocampal tissue, thereby reducing cognitive dysfunction. In a study investigating the effects of different doses of vitamin D on POCD, Zhang et al. found that high levels of vitamin D can improve cognitive dysfunction after sevoflurane anesthesia by enhancing hippocampal cholinergic activity and reducing the expression of inflammatory factors. A study has also shown that sevoflurane can reduce cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels, block protein kinase A-cyclic adenosine monophosphate-response element binding protein, mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathways, increase apoptosis and reactive oxygen species to induce cognitive impairment. Thus, roflumilast, a phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor, maintains normal levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate as well as the activity of the above signaling pathways, thereby improving rat neurological function. Necroptosis, which is related to calcium overload, also plays a role in the pathogenesis of POCD in aged rats. The use of necrostatin-1, an inhibitor of necroptosis, can improve neuroprotective effects of cognitive function by increasing BDNF pathway activity and inhibiting necroptosis-related pathways. In addition, it has been reported that electro-acupuncture pretreatment can alleviate sevoflurane-induced cognitive dysfunction, and its mechanism mainly lies in inhibiting calcium overload and reducing mitochondrial damage and neuronal apoptosis of hippocampal neurons. Similarly, atmospheric normobaric hyperoxia preconditioning can also reduce sevoflurane-induced apoptosis of hippocampal neurons, thereby improving POCD. Intestinal dysbacteriosis can increase the permeability of the blood-brain barrier in aged mice after sevoflurane surgery, thus inducing POCD. Lactobacillus may reduce the blood-brain barrier permeability to protect neurological function.\n\nPOCD induced by sevoflurane is clinically common, especially in elderly patients. Cognitive dysfunction will adversely affect the normal life of these patients. We have found that the pathogenesis of POCD lies mainly in neuroinflammation, apoptosis, and hippocampal dysfunction, but current treatments are still very limited or limited to animal experiments. Thus, we hope that these experiments may provide some guidance and new ideas for clinical treatment and give helps to these patients."}
{"pmc_id":"MGR-14-153","category":["Perspective"],"title":{"_VALUE":["The potential role of nitrogen dioxide inhalation in Parkinson’s disease"]},"authors":["Li, Hang","Yang, Siyuan","Wang, Jiahe","You, Wanchun","Xu, Jianguo","Chen, Gang"],"body_text":"Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disease in the elderly with motor and non-motor characteristics. PD is characterized by a unique set of clinical manifestations, including resting tremor, bradykinesia, and postural gait disorders. Patients may also experience non-motor symptoms such as depression, constipation and sleep disorders. If the disease progresses, gradual loss of brain function and premature death may occur. PD is initially associated with the loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons, with Lewy bodies found in intact nigrostriatal cells. PD affects 1–2% of adults over the age of 65 years and 4% of adults over the age of 80 years. Approximately 60,000 Americans are diagnosed with PD each year and there are currently more than one million Americans suffering from the disease. Given the increase in life expectancy, the amount of people living with PD is expected to increase by over 50% by 2030.\n\nIn the Braak phase of PD, α-synuclein aggregates pathologically in the olfactory bulb and gut, and then spreads to the central nervous system. In addition, risk factors for PD have been identified, such as exposure to air pollution and environmental pollutants which contains metals, pesticides and the microbiome. A previous animal study has proven that exposure to environmental particles leads to neuropathological damages to dopaminergic neurons, which is a feature of PD. Reducing the burden of PD can be achieved by a two-pronged strategy: implementing measures to decrease changeable factors such as behavioral or environmental risk factors and development of drugs that target the mechanisms of pathological genes or environmental exposure related to PD. Therefore, understanding the relationship between environmental risk factors and PD pathogenesis can promote relevant prevention and treatment strategies.\n\nDue to the widespread distribution of natural and man-made sources, nitrogen dioxide (NO ) is a ubiquitous atmospheric pollutant that can cause respiratory irritation when inhaled at high level concentrations. Natural sources of NO include volcanism, hill fire, lightning, and the stratosphere. The association between NO exposures and sanitation is often attributed to the exposure to ultrafine particles from transport-related emissions. Jo’s study found that the increase of the risk of PD was highly associated with exposure to NO (Hazard ratio for highest compared with lowest quartile, 1.41; 95% confidence interval, 1.02 to 1.95; value of tendency = 0.045), so did another study5 that evaluated the risk of PD based on the concentration of NO . Meanwhile, several studies have demonstrated the direct toxic effects of NO on the central nerve system. Studies have indicated that NO inhalation exacerbates amyloid β42 (Aβ ) accumulation and causes cognitive impairment through the metabolism of prostaglandin E2, causes synaptic dysfunction accompanied by auopathy, and increases the concentrations of pro-inflammatory markers in the brain ( ). Besides, oxidative stress and systemic inflammation following the inhalation of NO have been reported. The direct toxic effects of NO are consistent with a number of epidemiological studies suggesting associations between neurological disorders and NO , such as stroke, PD, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.\n\nWe reviewed the related articles systematically in the online databases PubMed, Embase and Cochrane on March 3, 2022, using the following search strategies: nitrogen dioxide or nitrogen peroxide, and Parkinson’s disease or primary parkinsonism, in various combinations as needed. In this manuscript, we explore the potential role of NO inhalation in PD to provide insight into the pathogenic mechanisms involved and to guide possible future treatment and prevention methods.\n\n\n\nNO is reported to be a highly concentrated pollutant that may be involved in the pathogenesis of PD and plays an important role in neuronal cell death. The impairment of mitochondrial has been implicated in a number of neurological disorders, and mitochondrial production of ROS is associated with these physiological signaling cascades. The interaction of mitochondrial membrane damage with compounds disrupts the efficiency of the coupling between oxidation and phosphorylation, resulting in a large bioenergetic deficit that is essential for the survival of cells and organisms. Mitochondria generate a membrane potential in the form of a proton gradient through the inner mitochondrial membrane by using oxidizable substrates. NO exposure may induce a reduction in mitochondrial intima potential. The membrane potential provides the impetus for adenosine triphosphate synthesis, and a drop in membrane potential affects adenosine triphosphate production in cells, ultimately leading to cell death. Meanwhile, after NO inhalation, thiazolyl blue tetrazolium bromide metabolism, cytochrome C oxidase activity and the expression levels of four respiratory complex subunits are decreased, which means that mitochondrial respiratory function is affected after NO inhalation, and mitochondrial respiratory function and neural activity are closely linked. The main source of ROS production is the mitochondrial respiratory enzyme complexes. The activities of these complexes are decreased after NO inhalation, which is an indirect indication of oxidative damage and results in loss of dopamine release from striatal axons, reduction of dendritic structures and dopamine release in the substantia nigra. After NO inhalation, the increased malonaldehyde level and overproduction of ROS in the cortex has been confirmed in the study by Li et al. These results confirm the close association between mitochondrial dysfunction or excessive ROS and NO inhalation, which may induce neurotoxicity and finally result in PD ( ).\n\nHyperphosphorylated tau protein is the main source of pathological tau inclusions that accumulate in neurogenic fibers and eventually lead to several neurodegenerative diseases such as PD. Tau phosphorylation increased in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus in a dose-dependent manner after inhalation of NO , clearly indicating that the inhalation of NO induces taupathy by enhancing tau phosphorylation. There is evidence that accumulation of highly phosphorylated tau in the brain deletions related to tau significantly impairs the function of synapses by altering glutamate receptor expression and function. Glutamate receptor expression was reduced in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus after exposure to NO . Based on these findings, NO exposure shows a great association with synaptic transmission dysfunction. Tau can influence the activity of synapses by directly interacting with post-synaptic signaling complexes in addition to regulating glutamate receptor content. The hyperphosphorylated tau protein, following exposure to NO , initiates the reduction cascade of the synaptic protein. Insulin is a toxicological target of air pollutants such as NO which can impair insulin sensitivity and induce insulin resistance, based on previous epidemiological and experimental studies. Findings focusing on the function of insulin and its related receptor in the central nervous system have shown that the neuronal insulin signaling can directly regulate the tau function and disrupt intracellular insulin signaling molecules, leading to tauopathy. Physiological functions of insulin are performed in various tissues targeted by insulin through several intracellular signaling cascades. The insulin receptor substrate-1/phosphoinositide-3-kinase/protein kinase B (Akt) pathway is the most remarkable cascades. Tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 and Akt was significantly reduced after exposure to NO , indicating the impairment of insulin signaling function. In response to inhaled NO , abnormal tau phosphorylation helped increase glycogen synthase kinase 3β by Akt inhibition activity. As a result, NO inhalation contributed to the tauopathy and disturbed insulin signaling, which is also involved in mediating the insulin receptor substrate-1/Akt/glycogen synthase kinase 3β signaling pathway ( ).\n\nAβ is one of the isoforms of Aβ that accumulates when the gene encoding amyloid precursor protein is mutated or otherwise causes an abnormal increase in β-secretase activity. The typical pathological feature of PD is the degenerative absence of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of the midbrain. A study found that Aβ could cause progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons, significantly altering the morphology of dopaminergic neurons, damaging proteins and membrane structures, and leading to neuronal necrosis or apoptosis. NO inhalation was shown to selectively cause Aβ deposition and dose-dependent impairment of mouse memory and cognitive ability. These findings suggest that inhaling NO may enhance the production of Aβ and lead to deterioration of spatial learning and memory. Through the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and Biocarta pathways, the significantly differentially expressed genes were mainly involved in the function of synapse and the abilities of learning and memory, including long-term potentiation/depression, the pathway of NO signaling, glutamatergic synapses, neurotrophin signaling, and the pathway of calcium signaling. The arachidonic acid metabolism pathway was also involved in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis. Arachidonic acid-derived prostaglandin E2, mainly derived from the cyclooxygenase-2 reaction, plays a critical role in stimulating Aβ formation, promoting neuroinflammatory responses, and regulating synaptic events ( ). Thus, cyclooxygenase-2-mediated arachidonic acid metabolism seems to be a potential mechanism to promote neurodegenerative disease progression. Furthermore, improving the endogenous 2-arachidonoylglycerol levels by suppressing monoacylglycerol lipase effectively inhibits the neuroinflammation and accumulation of Aβ induced by the excessive release of prostaglandin E2, thereby reducing the damage to spatial learning and memory caused by inhalation of NO , which provides a mechanistic basis for treating PD-related diseases in contaminated areas.\n\nFirst of all, the real air environment is a complex system that contains various components. Therefore, previous evidence may not be sufficient to confirm the exposure response correlation between NO and PD progression because of the different components in air pollutant mixtures. In addition, the studies included in this review investigated the potential mechanisms of NO in PD using animal models. Further studies should focus on the relationship between pathophysiological changes of populations exposed to high-level NO and the morbidity of PD in the future.\n\nWith an aging population, PD urgently needs more attention. Many studies have proven that NO can increase the incidence of PD. We need to continuously study the role of NO in the pathophysiology of PD, so as to provide guidance for the further prevention and treatment of PD.\n\n."}
{"pmc_id":"MGR-14-127","category":["Perspective"],"title":{"_VALUE":["Hyperoxia-enhanced intermittent hypoxia conditioning: mechanisms and potential benefits"]},"authors":["Mallet, Robert T.","Burtscher, Johannes","Gatterer, Hannes","Glazachev, Oleg","Millet, Grégoire P.","Burtscher, Martin"],"body_text":"For nearly a century, repeated exposures to reduced levels of oxygen in the inspired air, such as exposure to high-altitude sojourns or breathing low O gas mixtures, have been applied to induce adaptive mechanisms eliciting health benefits in humans. Intermittent hypoxia training, now more commonly referred to as intermittent hypoxia conditioning (IHC), was introduced in the 1930s to augment high-altitude acclimatization. Over recent decades, IHC has been increasingly reported to improve not only athletic performance, but also a variety of clinical conditions including cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases as well as metabolic and neurological disorders. IHC may be applied at rest (passive IHC) or combined with exercise (active IHC). Passive IHC is typically applied as repeated short (e.g., 3–10 minutes) exposures to moderately hypoxic gas mixtures (e.g., 14–10% O ), interspersed with short (e.g., 3–10 minutes) intervals of normoxic (21% O ) breathing.\n\nUnderstanding of the underlying mechanisms of IHC has been greatly expanded by the discovery and characterization of the hypoxia-inducible factors, for which William G. Kaelin Jr., Sir Peter J. Ratcliffe, and Gregg L. Semenza were awarded the 2019 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. In response to cellular hypoxia, these key transcription factors regulate the expression of an extensive portfolio of genes to orchestrate adaptive molecular processes thereby improving O supply, reducing O dependence, protecting cells from hypoxic/ischemic injury and increasing cellular resilience ( ). Several reviews have summarized our growing yet still incomplete knowledge of the physiological and molecular mechanisms activated by hypoxia-inducible factors and other – often interdependent – mediators that produce the benefits of IHC but also potentially detrimental effects. In addition to hypoxia-inducible factors, the transcription factor nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 has been implicated in the health-promoting effects of hypoxia preconditioning by upregulating antioxidant mechanisms that prevent oxidative damage ( ). Reactive O species (ROS) generated during the abrupt hypoxia-to-normoxia transition have emerged as major factors that induce adaptations to IHC. Moderate increases in ROS trigger redox signaling cascades that mobilize the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 gene program to effect adaptations that increase cellular, tissue and organism resilience. On the other hand, higher ROS levels impose oxidative stress that damages biomolecules and cells.\n\nFormation of ROS during hypoxia-normoxia transitions is rather modest, limiting the induction of protective antioxidant defenses. Compared with normoxia, reoxygenation with moderate hyperoxia (intermittent hypoxia-hyperoxia conditioning, IHHC) may affect greater ROS production, including by nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate hydrogen oxidase in endoplasmic reticular membranes ( ), thereby eliciting more robust induction of antioxidant genes. In patients with metabolic syndrome, IHHC proved to be a safe and readily tolerated intervention supporting the therapy and secondary prevention of components of metabolic syndrome and bolstering the patient’s anti-inflammatory status. As those studies did not directly compare IHHC with IHC, it remains unclear whether IHHC really confers benefits superior to IHC, and, if so, whether IHHC’s superiority may be due to more intense ROS formation and induction of antioxidant gene expression. Since ROS formation parallels increased O concentrations, the therapeutic range of hyperoxia intensity likely has an upper limit, beyond which the cytotoxicity of excess ROS would outweigh the benefits. Our aim here is to summarize and evaluate the limited empirical evidence on this topic and propose future research to define potential safety and efficacy differences between IHC and IHHC.\n\nA recent meta-analysis reported safety and potential efficacy of both IHHC and IHC in healthy people and patients suffering from various diseases. When applied independently, both strategies increased exercise performance and tolerance in healthy and diseased subjects, particularly geriatric patients, and also effected improvements in patients suffering from cardiovascular and respiratory diseases, metabolic syndrome and/or cognitive impairments. Unfortunately, few studies have compared IHHC and IHC effects directly, especially in humans. One placebo-controlled trial evaluated the effects of 3-week IHHC and IHC programs in 55 prediabetic 51–74-year-old adults. Sessions consisting of 4 cycles alternating 5 minutes of hypoxia (12% O ) and either 3 minutes of hyperoxia (IHHC, 33% O ) or 5 minutes of normoxia (IHC) were administered 5 times a week. Compared to a sham protocol of continuous normoxia, IHHC and IHC produced similar reductions of serum glucose concentrations, total serum cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein levels.\n\nSusta et al. evaluated short-term effects of IHHC and IHC on oxidative stress and antioxidant responses in 21 young (ages 1824 years), healthy men. In a crossover study design, participants were exposed to single IHHC and IHC sessions, 1 week apart, of 4–6 cycles of 5–7 minutes of hypoxia (11% O ) followed by 3–5 minutes of 30–35% or 21% O , respectively. Neither single IHC nor IHHC sessions increased serum measures of oxidative stress or antioxidant capacity vs. the respective pre-treatment values, suggesting that multiple sessions of IHC or IHHC are necessary to accrue their full benefits.\n\nWhile IHHC did not prove superior to IHC in these clinical studies, preclinical research in rodents has revealed different outcomes of IHHC vs. IHC. In rats, a 2-week program of daily, moderate IHHC (5 cycles alternating 5 minutes of 10% FiO and 5 minutes of 30% FiO ) generated more pronounced ROS signaling than an otherwise identical IHC protocol. IHHC pretreatment was associated with decreased basal and Fe /ascorbate-induced lipid peroxidation and formation of protein carbonyls and H O in lung mitochondria during subsequent severe hypoxic stress (7% FiO for 60 minutes). IHHC also induced gene expression and activities of Mn-superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase more robustly than IHC, likely augmenting antioxidant protection. Other studies in rats compared the effects of eight swimming sessions alone or combined with IHHC or IHC. Normoxic swimming exercise improved exercise tolerance, increased rates of ROS detoxification and antioxidant enzyme activities in the heart, liver and brain. The combined IHHC-swim training attenuated lipid peroxidation in brain and myocardium during acute stress (swimming to exhaustion). Over-activation of heat shock proteins and the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase and catalase were also prevented, relative to swim training alone or combined with IHC. The authors concluded that exercise combined with IHHC induces adaptations that limit oxidative damage of heart and brain more efficiently than exercise alone or exercise combined with IHC.\n\nThe collective evidence indicates that, although studies in rodents support the hypothesis that IHHC may induce beneficial adaptations more efficiently than IHC, a similar IHHC superiority in humans is not yet established. Only one study (and one protocol) directly compared the impacts of IHC and IHHC programs in humans, albeit on a limited set of metabolic variables. Susta et al. only applied single sessions of hypoxia and either normoxia or hyperoxia, so their results cannot be extrapolated to the effects of multi-session IHHC or IHC programs. Placebo-controlled studies comparing physiological responses and clinical outcomes of various IHHC and IHC protocols, and deciphering the signaling pathways initiated by IHHC . IHC, are urgently needed.\n\nIHC and IHHC are increasingly used to improve physical and, more recently, cognitive performance, and are potentially potent, essentially noninvasive treatments for various diseases. While several reports suggest that either IHC or IHHC may strongly benefit patients with therapeutically challenging, complex conditions, including mild cognitive impairment and hypertension, there are no clear recommendations for appropriate protocols. The lack of a harmonized terminology for beneficial applications of hypoxia and the complexity of the factors influencing the efficacy of intermittent hypoxia strategies are impeding the clinical applications of IHC or IHHC. Differences in the hypoxic dose (i.e., duration, intensity, number and frequency of hypoxia exposures), the heterogeneity of individual responses to hypoxia (which also raisese the question of whether fixed inspiratory O levels or target arterial O saturation values are preferable for research and clinical applications), as well as unclear effects of potential modulating factors (e.g., wakefulness/sleep and related circadian effects, physical activity and fitness, blood CO levels, medications, age and sex) complicate optimization of IHC and IHHC protocols. Here we focused on one specific parameter, the use of normoxic vs. hyperoxic intervals between hypoxic exposures. Although data in rats suggest that IHHC might be the superior protocol, consistent with the presumed greater induction of ROS-mediated cellular responses leading to stronger adaptations, there is currently no evidence of this superiority in humans.\n\nIn human studies, direct comparisons of IHC- and IHHC- induced physiological responses (e.g., cardiovascular, ventilatory, metabolic, neurophysiological) and cellular effects (e.g., oxidative stress, inflammation, energy metabolism, mitochondrial functions) will be crucial to substantiate IHHC’s potential superiority over IHC. Moreover, evidence-based recommendations on the hypoxic and hyperoxic doses need to be established for different populations. Typically, 30–35% O is applied during the hyperoxic periods, but this moderate hyperoxia may be too weak a stressor to trigger meaningful responses to the hyperoxia. On the other hand, more intense hyperoxia may elicit excessive, potentially harmful ROS formation. The possibility that hyperoxia might interfere with aspects of hypoxia responses, e.g., by reversing hypoxia-inducible factor activation, also merits consideration, as does the likelihood that IHC or IHHC protocols eliciting maximally beneficial responses and adaptations may vary among individuals depending on age, sex, genetic background, physical fitness, health history, medications and other variables. The persistence of the health benefits following completion of IHC or IHHC programs is another pivotal factor. Consequently, more systematic evaluation of potentially health-promoting IHC/IHHC protocols is mandatory to maximize the benefits of these promising interventions for many diseases for which effective treatments are currently limited or unavailable."}
{"pmc_id":"MGR-14-133","category":["Perspective"],"title":{"_VALUE":["Use of vedolizumab combined with hyperbaric oxygen therapy to treat enteric fistula in Crohn’s disease"]},"authors":["Bafutto, Mauro","Oliveira, Enio Chaves","Bafutto, Alexandre Augusto Ferreira","Filho, Carlos Alberto Ximenes"],"body_text":"Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) has shown a global increase, especially in developing countries. While the USA has the highest prevalence in the world (252 to 439 cases per 100,000 people), and the UK has the highest prevalence in Europe (373 per 100,000 people). IBD includes two subtypes: ulcerative colitis that is a mucosal inflammation and Crohn’s disease (CD) that is a transmural inflammation disorder. CD may affect any part of the digestive tract but more commonly occurs in the terminal ileum. IBD etiology remains unclear but a complex immune-mediated inflammatory process in the digestive tract has been identified. An interaction of genetic factors, environmental factors, immune response and gut microbe seem to trigger the disease. There is no cure to CD at the present. The main target in CD treatment is to reduce and control the inflammatory response.\n\nTherapy for CD is determined depending on the organ involved, severity, comorbidities, outcomes and prognosis. Therapeutic options for CD include 5-aminosalicylates, antibiotics, steroids, immunosuppressants, and biologics. Biologic therapy is the use of monoclonal antibodies against specific molecular targets to stop the inflammation process in CD. The first biologics were anti-tumor necrosis factors (infliximab, adalimumab, and certolizumab pegol). New agents with different mechanisms of action have emerged: agents that block leukocyte migration, such as natalizumab, vedolizumab (VDZ); and anti-interleukin (IL)-12 and -23 agents, such as ustequinumab.\n\nAdvanced therapy for CD with biologics requires an initial high-dose induction phase followed by a maintenance dose of the chosen drug. The goal is to obtain clinical responses, including symptomatic remission and mucosal healing. In addition, as a long-lasting therapy, biologics are intended to decrease the incidence of stenosis and fistula, thereby reducing the need for surgical treatment.\n\nTissue hypoxia is a well-known causative factor for inflammation. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) has shown benefits in patients with perineal disease and entero-cutaneous fistula and was first used as adjuvant therapy for CD in 1989. The main mechanism of VDZ is its anti-integrin action, preventing the entry of leukocytes into the intestinal wall. We hypothesize that HBOT with its potent anti-inflammatory effects, combined with the VDZ that prevents the continuation of this inflammatory process in the tissue, could lead to a permanent interruption of the inflammatory stimulus, resulting in healing and tissue regeneration. We reported a complicated case of entero-enteric fistula and small bowel stenosis treated with VDZ and HBOT.\n\nThe patient was a 32-year-old white male with symptoms of severe abdominal pain, diarrhea and weight loss. He reported a history of CD for 2 years and previous use of infliximab 5 mg/kg combined with azathioprine 2.5 mg/kg without improvement.\n\nAbdominal computed tomography scan showed entero-enteric fistula thickening and parietal stratification of the distal jejunum and terminal ileum walls ( ). Gastroscopy revealed severe erosive duodenitis. Fecal calprotectin level was 285 μg/g and C-reactive protein level was 47.6 mg/L. He was treated with vedolizumab (Hospira Inc., McPherson, KS, USA) 300 mg at 0, 2 and 6 weeks and underwent 40 sessions of HBOT with 100% oxygen concentration, pressure of 2 ATA (atmosphere absolute; 1 ATA = 760 mmHg), 2 hours/day, 7 days/week, for 40 days. After 6 weeks, the patient was asymptomatic with a normal abdominal computed tomography scan, fecal calprotectin = 4 μg/g and C-reactive protein < 6 mg/L. The patient continued to be treated with vedolizumab (300 mg, intravenous injection) every 8 weeks. After 12 months of follow-up, the patient had no abdominal discomfort, a normal abdominal computed tomography scan ( ) and normal levels of fecal calprotectin and C-reactive protein.\n\nIn this case of fistulizing and fibro-stenosing CD, the combination of VDZ with HBOT was used. We believe that the mechanism of action of HBOT could be complementary and additive to VDZ.\n\nIn recent years, HBOT has been introduced to treat complex diseases, such as tissue ischemia, neurological disorders, complications related to diabetes mellitus, neoplasms, carbon monoxide poisoning and actinic lesions. Some HBOT indications remain controversial, although its adjuvant use combined with conventional medical treatment is associated with other clinical benefits. On the other hand, there are concerns related to a negative side effect of pressurized O , such as oxidative stress injuries, DNA damage, cellular metabolism, activation of the coagulation cascade, endothelial dysfunction, neurotoxicity and pulmonary toxicity.\n\nThe use of HBOT involves breathing 100% oxygen under pressure, leading to an increase in plasma and tissue oxygen levels. As a result, there is relief from hypoxia and increased oxygen content in the blood reaching the inflamed intestine or chronic non-healing fistulas. It has also been reported that HBOT alters the signaling pathways involved in tissue response to hypoxia and wound repair, especially the hypoxia-inducible factor and hemeoxygenase pathways. HBOT has important anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting the production of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines (IL-1, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-α). It has also been observed to improve wound healing through the increase of growth factors and the migration of bone marrow-derived progenitor stem cells. Furthermore, reactive oxygen and nitrogen species generated by brief exposures to hyperbaric oxygen may act by stimulating nitric oxide synthase and vascular endothelial growth factor. In addition to reducing tissue hypoxia, other factors seem to be involved in the possible beneficial effects of HBOT on IBD activity, such as improved wound healing and changes in inflammatory and immunological mediators.\n\nIn 2021, Wu et al. reviewed clinical and experimental data on how HBOT could benefit patients with IBD by: (1) increasing colonic tissue oxygen levels; (2) blocking the release of proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-1, IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α leading to inhibition of the inflammatory response; (3) stimulating colonic stem cell differentiation and recruitment of cells involved in the healing process; and (4) increasing the antioxidant process and reducing neutrophil migration into colonic tissue. All these known HBOT properties reinforce the possibility of its use in CD patients with small and large bowel fistula and stenosis.\n\nPatients with CD, especially those with perineal involvement and those with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis, derive the greatest benefit from HBOT therapy, but for luminal CD without perianal disease the data in the literature are scarce and inconclusive. The outcome of our case suggests that HBOT may be used in combination with biologic agents in a combo therapy for those patients with enteric fistulas.\n\nVDZ is a monoclonal antibody used in the treatment of moderate and severe forms of ulcerative colitis and CD. VDZ acts as an integrin antagonist, binding to the α4β7 integrin that is expressed on T lymphocytes with gastrointestinal orientation. Binding of α4β7 integrin to mucosal addressing cell adhesion molecule-1, which is expressed on the surface of mucosal endothelial cells, is a major component of the selective homing mechanism of the intestine to lymphocytes. Therefore, the main mechanism of VDZ is its anti-integrin effect, which prevents leukocytes from entering the intestinal wall, thus preventing the perpetuation and continuity of the inflammatory process.\n\nThe efficacy and safety of VDZ in the treatment of patients with CD and ulcerative colitis have been demonstrated. Longterm follow-up shows persistent high response rates and clinical remission. In addition, a differentiating factor in the use of VDZ compared to other biologics and monoclonal antibodies is its excellent safety profile, as VDZ is intestine-selective and theoretically associated with less systemic immunosuppression and therefore fewer adverse effects.\n\nThe patient’s quality of life improved 1 year after HBOT. He had no longer abdominal discomfort, such as abdominal distension, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. He gained body mass and exercised twice a week.\n\nIn conclusion, the rationale of the combination of HBOT and VDZ would be the combination of all these mechanisms at the same time. Further studies are warranted in CD patients with entero-enteric fistula under the risk of multiple small bowel resections.\n\n."}
{"pmc_id":"MGR-14-130","category":["Perspective"],"title":{"_VALUE":["Hyperbaric oxygen: a multifaceted approach in cancer therapy"]},"authors":["Deng, Qingyuan","Yang, Xiangliang","Li, Zifu"],"body_text":"As one of the fundamental characteristics of solid tumors, hypoxia promotes tumor initiation and progression, induces tumor sternness, and leads to an abundant extracellular matrix (ECM), immunosuppression, and abnormal oxidative stress levels, rendering tumor cells insensitive to treatments such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and photodynamic therapy. Therefore, overcoming hypoxia to sensitize cancer therapy has become a current research hotspot. Hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) has emerged as a promising adjuvant therapy in various medical conditions, and there are 14 approved indications for HBO including “Air or gas embolism,” “Acute thermal burn injury,” “Carbon monoxide poisoning,” and to name a few. Apart from the listed applications, there are further conditions in which HBO may be useful, which is cancer treatment. HBO delivers pure oxygen with increased atmospheric pressure, which helps tumors overcome hypoxia.\n\nIn this perspective, we delve into the multifaceted mechanisms by which HBO could potentially revolutionize cancer treatment ( ). Based on our previous works, we summarized four aspects in which HBO could significantly influence cancer therapy: (1) HBO normalizes tumor mechanics and blood vessels by dramatically reducing fibronectin and collagen I within tumor area, which benefits the penetration depth and drug accumulation in solid tumors. (2) HBO directly suppresses cancer stem cells (CSCs) and cancer metastasis, prominently decreasing both intestinal metastatic nodules in pancreatic cancer mice model and lung metastasis in breast cancer bearing mice. (3) HBO could disrupt hypoxia-mediated immunosuppression, which helps programmed death-1 (PD-1) antibody trigger cytotoxic T lymphocytes and long-lasting immunological memory to inhibit tumor recurrences. (4) HBO facilitates an elevation in oxidative stress within cancer cells, working in conjunction with ROS-inducing nanoparticles to promote the accumulation of oxidative damage specifically in cancerous cells. This process ultimately triggers apoptosis, leading to the demise of cancer cells.\n\nTaking into account all these aspects, HBO has the potential to collaborate effectively with commercialized nanomedicine or immune checkpoint blockade inhibitors, yielding a range of benefits such as enhanced penetration, increased accumulation in tumor tissues, reduced recurrence rates, and more. This synergy opens up new and promising possibilities in the ongoing fight against cancers.\n\nThe tumor microenvironment plays a crucial role in tumor progression and cancer therapy. CAFs and ECM surrounding tumors contribute to tumor growth, invasiveness, and the development of abnormal tumor blood vessels. These factors create a hostile tumor microenvironment that hinders drug delivery and immune cell infiltration. HBO has been shown to directly suppress CAFs and remodel the ECM, leading to the normalization of tumor mechanics and blood vessels. Additionally, HBO-induced normalization of the ECM can improve the homogeneous distribution of therapeutic agents within the tumor, augmenting their efficacy. HBO regulates the hypoxia-inducible factor 1α/connective tissue growth factor/collagen I pathway in tumors to reduce the deposition of collagen fibrils. On the other hand, HBO can modulate genes associated with collagen biogenesis pathways, such as C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 and transforming growth factor-β. It also regulates the expression of matrix metalloproteinase 7. Due to the remodeling of the ECM by HBO, reduced solid stress within the tumor contributes to the normalization of tumor vascular structure and function.\n\nUsing various techniques, including fluorescent staining of tissue sections, western blotting, quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and flow cytometric analysis, many studies observed significant decreases in several ECM and CAF-related markers such as fibronectin, collagen I, α-smooth muscle actin, and fibroblast activation protein-α in tumors following HBO treatment. Additionally, Liu et al. used atomic force microscopy to measure the Young’s modulus of tumor tissues before and after HBO treatment, revealing that HBO treatment led to a softening of tumor tissues. Furthermore, Wang et al. observed a reduction in neovascularization, decreased vascular curvature, and increased blood perfusion at tumor tissues by HBO treatment. These experimental results suggest that HBO exerts a positive effect on the mechanical properties and vascular normalization of tumor tissues. Utilizing a 3D tumor spheroid model co-culturing cancer cells with fibroblasts, Wang et al. verified that HBO treatment facilitated deep penetration of Abraxane, providing an explanation for the improved antitumor efficacy when combining HBO with commercialized nanomedicines. These investigations collectively indicate that HBO ameliorates tumor hypoxia and remodels the tumor microenvironment, mechanical properties, and vascular milieu. This leads to an elevation in the delivery efficiency of nanomedicines to tumor sites, encompassing augmented tumor accumulation, enhanced deep penetration, and cellular uptake. Consequently, these effects synergistically contribute to the efficient eradication of tumor stem cells, suppression of tumor metastasis, and heightened antineoplastic efficacy of nanomedicines.\n\nCSCs are a subpopulation of cells within tumors that possess stem cell-like properties, including self-renewal and tumorigenic capabilities.\n\nHypoxia and the resultant hypoxia-inducible factor 1α play pivotal roles in initiating and sustaining the sternness of CSCs. These CSCs are highly resistant to conventional therapies and are often responsible for cancer recurrence and metastasis. HBO emerges as a significant modality capable of effectively counteracting the hypoxic conditions prevalent in solid tumors. Through this mechanism, HBO disrupts the maintenance and self-renewal of CSCs, consequently attenuating the stem-like properties within solid tumors. Therefore, HBO has a dual impact on CSCs. First, it diminishes the self-renewal capacity of CSCs, thereby reducing their ability to regenerate. Secondly, HBO enhances the effectiveness of nanomedicines in eliminating CSCs. This synergistic effect is attributed to HBO’s improvement of nanomedicine delivery efficiency, alleviation of G0-G1 phase cell cycle arrest, and increased sensitivity to nanomedicine treatments. By decreasing tumor stemness and enhancing stem cell elimination efficiency, HBO significantly suppresses tumor metastasis. In the orthotopic pancreatic cancer mice model, various experimental approaches, including fluorescent staining and flow cytometry analysis of sternness biomarker CD133 within tumor tissues, are employed to verify that HBO-treated groups exhibited significantly lower levels of CD133 expression compared to their untreated counterparts. This finding suggests that HBO can effectively reduce the sternness of pancreatic cancer cells. Moreover, in the fibrin gel tumor spheroid assay, the authors further validated the reduction of tumor spheroid number and diameter when HBO was combined with several clinical frontline drugs such as Abraxane or Doxil, using different tumor cell lines like Panc02 and 4T1 cancer cells. These observations indicate a decrease in tumor cell sternness due to HBO treatment. The same group further investigated both the number of intestinal metastatic nodules in Panc02 tumor models and the lung metastasis in 4T1 breast cancer model, and found that the HBO-treated groups exhibited fewer metastatic lesions compared to their untreated counterparts. Taken together, these finding underscore the significance of HBO in modulating the aberrant microenvironment of malignant solid tumors. These findings suggest that HBO has considerable promise in clinical applications for treating matrix- and CSCs-rich solid tumors.\n\nTumor hypoxia is known to create an immunosuppressive microenvironment that hinders the activity of immune cells. The effectiveness of immune checkpoint blockade inhibitors against solid tumors is compromised by the hypoxia induced immunosuppressive microenvironment. HBO has been shown to reverse hypoxia-mediated immunosuppression by promoting the activation and proliferation of various immune cells. Enhanced T-cell and natural Killer cell function, along with increased production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, can lead to improved anti-tumor immunity. Furthermore, HBO’s ability to promote dendritic cell maturation and antigen presentation can enhance the adaptive immune response against cancer cells. Liu et al. assessed changes in immune cell infiltration at tumor tissues before and after HBO treatment and found that HBO treatment significantly increased the proportion of lymphocytes, including CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, in the tumor microenvironment, as confirmed by fluorescent staining and flow cytometry of tumor tissues. Based on these results, the authors initiated a clinical trial investigating the combination of HBO with PD-1 antibodies for hepatocellular carcinoma patients. They examined a broad range of immune cell populations and found that HBO, in combination with PD-1 antibodies, resulted in a decrease in myeloid-derived suppressor cells, an increase in the M1/M2 macrophage ratio, enhanced cytotoxic T lymphocyte proportion and proliferation activity, and reduced levels of cytokines like transforming growth factor-β and interleukin-10 in the serum. In the realm of clinical practice, despite emerging as promising anticancer agents, immune checkpoint inhibitors have exhibited limited efficacy against solid tumors. This phenomenon primarily arises due to the immunosuppressive microenvironment and sparse immune cell infiltration. The investigation involving the co-administration of HBO with PD-1 antibodies for the treatment of murine pancreatic cancer underscores the significant capacity of HBO to markedly enhance immune cell, particularly T-cell, infiltration. This effect is shown to reverse the tumor's immunosuppressive microenvironment, thereby offering a conduit for immunotherapeutic interventions and presenting a novel avenue for clinically addressing solid tumors. The synergistic application of immune checkpoint inhibitor agents in conjunction with HBO holds substantial potential for yielding robust anti-tumor effects in clinical contexts.\n\nCancer cells are sensitive to changes in oxidative stress levels, and elevated levels of oxygen in the presence of HBO lead to an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) production within tumor cells. ROS plays a crucial role in inducing apoptosis (programmed cell death) in cancer cells. By elevating oxidative stress, HBO, combined with ROS-inducing nanomedicines, can boost cancer cell apoptosis. This targeted approach holds great potential in developing novel and less toxic cancer therapies.\n\nMany studies developed various nanomedicines and achieved favorable results in treating different types of tumors when combined with HBO. For instance, HBO combined with up-conversion nanoparticles photodynamic therapy demonstrated potent therapeutic efficacy in a 4T1 tumor-bearing mouse model.9 Additionally, HBO combined with hydroxyethyl starch-coupled doxorubicin-loaded glucose oxidase nanoparticles depleted glucose within tumor cells, increased oxidative stress, and decreased cell stemness, ultimately inducing tumor cell death through the synergistic actions of chemotherapy, chemodynamic therapy, and starvation therapy. These studies revealed that HBO not only enhanced oxidative stress but also increased drug penetration and accumulation while reducing tumor cell stemness, presenting a multifaceted therapeutic approach.\n\nIn a holistic perspective, HBO exhibits a dual functionality within these investigations. Firstly, HBO elevates oxygen tension within solid tumors, ameliorating hypoxic conditions and thereby providing substrates for the generation of ROS. Secondly, HBO treatment remodels the tumor microenvironment, facilitating enhanced penetration and targeted accumulation of nanoparticles. Through these two aspects, HBO significantly augments the cytotoxic impact of nanoparticles utilizing principles such as photodynamic therapy or chemodynamic therapy, wherein ROS are employed for tumor cell eradication. This synergistic enhancement yields robust antineoplastic effects, thereby contributing to a substantial anti-tumor outcome. HBO modulation of tumor oxidative stress levels can guide the design of a new type of ROS-mediated tumor therapy, enabling the development of novel oxygen-dependent nanodrugs. For instance, it is possible to investigate whether HBO can enhance ROS-dependent ferroptosis.\n\nHBO therapy represents a promising approach to complement existing cancer treatments. By targeting multiple aspects of tumor progression, HBO has the potential to suppress CSCs and cancer metastasis, normalize tumor mechanics and blood vessels, disrupt hypoxia-mediated immunosuppression, and sensitize cancer cell through increased oxidative stress. The multifaceted mechanisms of HBO highlight its versatility and capacity to contribute to cancer treatments. As ongoing research continues to elucidate the full extent of HBO’s benefits and optimize its integration into cancer therapy, the molecular mechanisms of HBO’s effect still have significant gaps. For instance, the mechanisms underlying HBO’s reduction of CAFs and ECM, and the specific subtype of CAFs affected, remain to be elucidated. The molecular basis by which HBO inhibits CSCs and the mechanism of selective CSC inhibition while sparing normal cells are still unclear. One of the current research directions is to explore the molecular mechanisms through which HBO inhibits cancer metastasis. Similarly, the precise identity of immune cells and molecules responsible for HBO- induced immune cell infiltration remains elusive. Regarding the changes in oxidative stress, a more comprehensive investigation into the mechanisms is needed, spanning from systemic oxidative stress levels in the whole organism to the impact on the mechanism of mitochondrial oxidative respiration within organelles. Nevertheless, the collective findings summarized in this study underscore the multifaceted efficacy of HBO in the realm of cancer therapy, offering promise in addressing several clinical challenges associated with solid tumors, including suboptimal chemotherapy responses, ineffective immune therapy, tumor metastasis, and relapse. Several ongoing clinical trials are currently recruiting patients, with anticipation for further preclinical investigative outcomes. In summary, HBO’s multifaceted mechanisms address critical issues in the treatments of solid tumors, holding significant potential for clinical translation, thereby providing novel insights and opportunities in the landscape of cancer therapy. Finally, it is our hope that this perspective can offer a new direction for gas therapy of cancer and provide a novel approach for clinical management of cancers."}
{"pmc_id":"MGR-14-149","category":["Perspective"],"title":{"_VALUE":["Hydrogen inhalation therapy may ameliorate amyotrophic lateral sclerosis"]},"authors":["Ichikawa, Yusuke","Sato, Bunpei","Hirano, Shin-ichi","Takefuji, Yoshiyasu","Satoh, Fumitake"],"body_text":"Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a motor neuron disease, a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by sporadic and progressive degenerative loss of cell bodies of both the upper and lower motor neurons. Clinical manifestations of ALS are known to include lower motor neuron symptoms, upper motor neuron symptoms, bulboparesthesia symptoms, cognitive dysfunction, and negative signs. Dissociated small hand atrophy is also known as a characteristic symptom. ALS is always progressive, and once a person has the disease, there is no relief from the symptoms. No matter which part of the body the symptoms start in, eventually all the muscles in the body are affected, and finally the respiratory muscles also stop working, with a majority of people suffering from respiratory failure. Without the use of a ventilator, the time from illness to death is roughly 3–5 years. Since reactive oxygen species are known to be closely related to the onset of ALS, antioxidants are expected to contribute to the suppression of ALS onset and improvement of its symptoms, and a number of antioxidants have been developed as candidates for ALS treatment. However, all of these antioxidants have been used only as a coping strategy, and there is no antioxidant that has been found to fundamentally improve ALS.\n\nIt has been proposed that molecular hydrogen may inhibit chronic inflammation by scavenging hydroxyl radicals generated within cells and mitochondria, which may have an effect on many diseases caused by chronic inflammation. However, there are no reports of prevention or amelioration of ALS or ALS-related symptoms.\n\nThis perspective describes the mechanism of action in the development of ALS, touches on the possibility of ALS amelioration by hydrogen, and presents a case in which ALS symptoms were ameliorated by inhalation of hydrogen gas.\n\nBased on the mechanism of oxygen-induced damage, the pathogenesis of ALS can be explained. It is the excessive deposition of metal ions in the brain, rather than the lack of metal ions, that is the problem in the association between neurological disease and abnormal metal metabolism. In ALS patients, the first motor cortex of the cerebral cortex is also prone to excessive deposition of metal ions such as iron ions ( ). Trivalent iron ions (Fe ) deposited into the brain are absorbed into upper motor neurons by transferrin receptor 1 and reduced to divalent iron (Fe ) by divalent metal transporters ( ). On the other hand, leakage of electrons in the electron transfer system occurs inside mitochondria, which are known to produce the highest amount of reactive oxygen species in the cell, and 1–5% of the oxygen used for respiration is converted to hydrogen peroxide via superoxide. Hydrogen peroxide produces hydroxyl radicals (Fenton reaction) by one-electron reduction, in which hydrogen peroxide receives an electron from the reducing Fe . Hydroxyl radicals have the strongest oxidative activity and indiscriminately attack neurons in the brain, destroying neurons and cellular constituents, resulting in ALS. These are the so-called mechanisms of ferroptosis. Therefore, the key to preventing and improving ALS is how to eliminate hydroxyl radicals generated in the brain.\n\nHydrogen is the smallest diatomic molecule and can freely penetrate cell membranes to reach the brain. Hydrogen can also react with hydroxyl radicals and protect the brain from hydroxyl radical attack by converting hydroxyl radicals to water molecules. Given the mechanism of action of ALS, it is thought that the progression of ALS can be inhibited and improved if antioxidants can be delivered to the areas of the brain where metals are deposited and hydroxyl radicals can be scavenged; however, attempts to use antioxidants have failed. For example, edaravone, a radical scavenger known as a therapeutic agent for ALS, has a large molecular weight, making it difficult for it to reach deep into the brain. There is also a limit to how much of the reaction byproduct of edaravone can be expelled from the brain, and it is associated with serious side effects. Therefore, edaravone cannot stop the progression of ALS. In addition to edaravone, other drugs targeting cranial nerve diseases face the following problems.\n\nHydrogen can protect the brain with these advantages without any side effects. Hydrogen can easily overcome all the problems of pharmaceuticals. Because of this mechanism of action, hydrogen may be effective against neurological diseases such as ALS and Parkinson’s disease, and we decided to confirm the effect of hydrogen on ALS symptoms by recommending one patient with ALS to inhale hydrogen gas. Care must be taken when handling hydrogen because it is explosive, so hydrogen gas inhalers that produce less than 10 volume hydrogen, which is under the explosive concentration, should be used.\n\nA 64-year-old Japanese man felt something wrong with his left calf in the spring of 2021, and when he went to the hospital in August of the same year, he was diagnosed with ALS. Doctors declared that there was no treatment for ALS and that he had 3 to 4 years to live. The paralysis in his left leg progressed, and the calf of his left leg became noticeably thinner than his right leg, which could be seen just by looking at it. Walking became difficult, and he could not walk straight without the use of a cane. The patient began inhaling hydrogen gas in October 2022. The hydrogen gas inhaler used was a product named Jobs-α (trademark registered as Jobs) from MiZ Company Limited (Kamakura, Kanagawa, Japan). The hydrogen concentration of Jobs-α is 4% to 5% and the hydrogen volume is 200 mL/min as 100% hydrogen generates. The inhalation time was 7 to 8 hours per day, mainly during sleep. On November 10, 2022, muscle tone in the left calf returned at a visually noticeable level. In early December 2022, the patient went on a business trip to Europe. His family was concerned about whether he could go on a business trip with his ALS, but he decided to go on the trip because his health condition had not deteriorated and he had been able to work energetically despite his difficult schedule due to inhalation of hydrogen gas. He had no problems walking, despite the cold weather and cool temperatures in Europe. Although he still uses a cane for safety, he has seen a definite improvement in his ability to walk. Other positive results include increased appetite and good bowel movements, and he has seen improvements in his blood pressure, blood sugar, and liver function. The study has obtained written informed consent from the patient.\n\nIn view of the mechanism of conversion of hydroxyl radicals to water molecules by hydrogen as described above, hydrogen may have the potential to prevent ferroptosis in motor neurons, thereby inhibiting ALS progression. In this study, we succeeded in suppressing the paralysis and degeneration of the calf muscles, a symptom of ALS, and even improved the difficulty in walking by having one ALS patient actually inhale hydrogen. Until now, no drug has been able to halt the progression of ALS symptoms, and the disease has been so intractable that patients have had no choice but to wait for death. Although this is only one case, future clinical trials with multiple patients should confirm the effectiveness of this treatment.\n\n.\n\n."}
{"pmc_id":"MGR-14-140","category":["Perspective"],"title":{"_VALUE":["Medical implications of gas producing probiotics: anti-inflammation and immunity enhancement for ameliorating disease severity"]},"authors":["Porwal, Deeksha","Das, Biswadeep"],"body_text":"Inflammation is a typical immune response expressed during injury or infection that plays a pivotal role in maintaining the health and integrity of the human body. It is a complex and highly orchestrated process that works as a defense mechanism to eliminate microbial pathogens, promote tissue repair, and restore equilibrium within the body. Inflammation is characterized by hallmarks, such as vasodilation and increased permeability, immune cell infiltration, and cytokine signaling. While acute inflammation is a transient response during trauma/infection, chronic inflammation could involve disorders that result in aberrant and persistent activation of the inflammatory cascade.\n\nRecently, coronaviruses have emerged periodically in different areas across the world, causing high mortalities. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) outbreak occurred for the first time in 2002, which reportedly infected 8422 people and caused 916 deaths worldwide. SARS-CoV can induce inflammation through infection and multiorgan impairment, including lungs, brain, heart, and liver. The recent reemergence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) in the form of global pandemic has significantly delineated the interplay between viral infections and the immune system. One of the hallmark features of severe SARS-CoV-2 cases is dysregulated and exaggerated inflammatory response, often referred to as the “cytokine storm.” Such dysregulated immune response is responsible for exacerbating the severity of SARS-CoV-2, leading to high mortality. SARS-CoV-2 enters the human body via respiratory droplets, binds to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 receptors in the lungs, triggers viral replication, and prompts an immune response. However, in some cases, the immune system becomes dysregulated, leading to a cytokine storm, characterized by excessive release of pro-inflammatory cytokines (interleukin (IL)-6, IL-Ιβ, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, etc.). Such a response results in widespread inflammation and endothelial dysfunction, increasing vascular permeability and blood clot formation.\n\nAnother recently re-emerging pathogen is Nipah virus that causes severe respiratory and neurological infections in humans. In contrast to SARS-CoV-2 known for its systemic and chronic inflammation affecting multiple organs, Nipah virus infection primarily leads to acute encephalitis, manifested by localized inflammation in the brain. Nipah virus is primarily transmitted to humans from animals, particularly fruit bats, and can also spread through human-to-human contact. Upon entry, Nipah virus initially infects the respiratory tract, and then spreads to various organs, including the central nervous system. The immune system recognizes the virus as a threat and induces a defense response. This response involves the activation of immune cells, particularly macrophages and dendritic cells, which release pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. Once inside the host cell, Nipah virus triggers a complex immunological response, leading to inflammation. The inflammatory response can become dysregulated in certain cases, leading to “cytokine storm” and high mortality, similar to that in severe SARS-CoV-2 infection. The excessive release of cytokines results in widespread inflammation throughout the body, contributing to disease severity. To mitigate such viral induced inflammation, the host cell stimulates the production of anti-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-10, transforming growth factor-beta), regulatory T cells, and specialized pro-resolving mediators along with clearing dead cells, debris mitigating inflammation and promoting recovery. Although, in some cases, the inflammatory response can exacerbate and lead to serious complications and require medical treatment.\n\nHospital management of inflammation in viral infections, involving SARS-CoV-2 and Nipah virus utilizes corticosteroids, such as dexamethasone to reduce inflammation, through alleviating “cytokine storm.” However, prolonged or high-dose corticosteroid use can weaken the immune system and lead to adverse effects, such as secondary infections, including black fungus, elevated blood sugar levels and mood disturbances. Similarly, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen alleviate the inflammatory symptoms; however, they can induce gastrointestinal side effects and increase the risk of bleeding and ulcers, and so, careful monitoring and balanced use are essential in treatment. Besides the conventional approaches, various complementary and alternative medicine strategies are being explored for mitigating inflammation induced by SARS-CoV-2, Nipah virus and similar other viruses such as dengue and encephalitis. Such compounds include omega-3 fatty acids, curcumin, and probiotics to name a few. Notably, probiotics have demonstrated significant potential in attenuating inflammation and enhancing clinical outcomes; and being natural, confer least adverse effects. Probiotics, live microorganisms akin to beneficial gut bacteria, are often termed “good” bacteria because of their role in gut health maintenance. They have the potential to mitigate viral-induced inflammation by stimulating the production of anti-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-10 and transforming growth factor-beta, thereby aiding in immune response balance. Moreover, probiotics support healthy gut microbiota, crucial for a robust immune system and alleviating inflammatory disease severity through the production of unique health-promoting compounds. Studies have shown that probiotics can reduce inflammation and enhance outcomes in SARS-CoV-2 patients, such as improved lung function. Probiotics derived from bacterial strains like and are beneficial inhabitants of the gut and stimulate mucosal immunity. When introduced into the body, they promote balanced microbiota by displacing harmful bacteria and maintaining the gut equilibrium.\n\nWhile the concept of probiotics as gut guardians is widely accepted, the discovery of their ability to produce gaseous mediators adds a new dimension to their multifaceted role. Such gaseous mediators, including nitric oxide (NO), hydrogen sulfide (H S), and carbon monoxide, possess unique properties and biological activities that extend beyond the confinement of the gut.\n\nNO produced by probiotics, plays vital roles in regulating blood flow, mucosal defense, and immune responses in the gut. can produce NO through two distinct pathways. Firstly, can metabolize L-arginine, an amino acid, to generate NO, possibly as part of its metabolic processes. Secondly, under aerobic conditions, can reduce nitrate (NO ) to nitrite (NO ), and then convert nitrite to NO, contributing to NO production through the nitrate reduction pathway. NO serves as a crucial signaling molecule in immune responses, with potential antiviral effects. Studies have reported the antiviral effect of NO that inhibit viral replication in Epstein–Barr virus, and mitigates excessive inflammation by the enhanced production of various anti-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-10, IL-13, transforming growth factor-beta through influencing both nuclear factor kappa-B and Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription signaling. These immune-signal molecules downregulate pro-inflammatory cytokines that makes it beneficial for treating chronic inflammatory conditions and protecting against viral infections.\n\nH S is synthesized by specific gut microbiota, especially sulfate-reducing bacteria. H S is primarily generated through two main processes: cysteine catabolism and the activity of sulfate-reducing bacteria. These include microrganisms such as and which employ the enzyme cysteine desulfhydrase to transform cysteine into H S, pyruvate, and ammonia. It has been found that the administration of H S significantly reduces pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-8, and increases anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 in the lungs. H S at low concentration assists in supporting mucosal health and anti-inflammatory functions by inhibiting the proinflammatory signaling pathways. However, at elevated levels, H S can become toxic and exacerbate inflammation, highlighting the importance of balance and precise regulation. In the context of SARS-CoV-2 and Nipah virus infection, H S and NO have the potential to mitigate inflammation by inhibiting the generation of pro-inflammatory cytokines, encouraging the production of anti-inflammatory cytokines, ameliorating oxidative stress, and enhancing vascular function.\n\nUtilization of external clinically relevant gaseous mediators has demonstrated the capacity to reduce microbial infections, dampen inflammation, and enhance antiviral immune responses. Interestingly, studies have explored the development of an innovative NO-producing probiotic patch to treat ischemic and infected full-thickness dermal wounds, leading to enhanced wound healing as indicated by reduced surface depression, diminished crusting and exudation, and decreased inflammation and infiltration. Such novel probiotic patches producing NO and H S can be designed for reducing inflammation caused by pathogenic virus by using genetically engineered probiotics, rendering them to produce high amounts of gaseous mediators. This can be done by “knocking in” genes that encode enzymes involved in the production of NO and H S, or by “knocking out” genes that encode enzymes that degrade these gaseous mediators. Once the probiotics have been engineered, they can be embedded in a patch material that is compatible with the human skin and allows sustained release of NO and H S. The patch can then be applied to the skin of patients affected by a particular viral infection, thereby ameliorating inflammation by diffusing into the surrounding tissues and suppressing the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and promoting the production of anti-inflammatory cytokines, which in turn will alleviate oxidative stress ( ). Both H S and NO are important signaling molecules in the body and play crucial roles in various physiological processes. However, an overproduction of these gases can have some degree of adverse health effects such as toxicity, excessive vasodilation, and neurotoxicity. Therefore, it is crucial to build a balance in the application of such gases, and medical conditions associated with their overproduction should be properly managed by healthcare professionals. Complementation of such probiotics producing medically relevant gaseous mediators along with conventional antibiotics may lead to more effective treatment strategies and ameliorate inflammation during the treatment regime."}
{"pmc_id":"MGR-14-151","category":["Perspective"],"title":{"_VALUE":["The therapeutic potential of signaling gases in COVID-19"]},"authors":["Durante, William"],"body_text":"Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an extremely contagious disease caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The COVID-19 pandemic has infected over 764 million people and caused the death of almost 7 million people globally. SARS-CoV-2 is a large, enveloped, positivesense, single-stranded RNA virus that enters host cells via the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 receptors that are abundantly expressed on the respiratory epithelium. Once infected, host cells initiate an immune response resulting in the local recruitment of T-lymphocytes, monocytes, and neutrophils which in turn emits an assortment of cytokines. In most instances, the local immune response resolves the infection leading to mild to moderate flu-like symptoms such as fever, headache, cough, and fatigue. However, in severe COVID-19, overactivation of the immune system triggers a cytokine storm typified by the massive release of proinflammatory cytokines that mediates widespread lung inflammation and the development of pneumonia that can progress to acute respiratory distress syndrome. Moreover, the ensuing rise in circulating cytokines causes endothelial dysfunction, vasospasm, and thrombosis leading to vascular occlusion, multiorgan failure, and death. While the development of vaccines and antivirals have dramatically reduced SARS-CoV-2 infection, disease severity, and mortality, adaptive mutations in the viral genome generates viral variants that may limit the effectiveness of currently available antivirals and vaccines, underscoring the demand for additional therapeutic options in treating this deadly disease.\n\nNitric oxide (NO), carbon monoxide (CO), and hydrogen sulfide (H S) are small, lipid soluble gaseous molecules that were historically viewed as highly noxious environmental hazards. However, research conducted in the last few decades established that these gases are generated endogenously and serve as important signaling molecules in a multitude of physiological processes. NO is generated from arginine by a collection of enzymes known as NO synthase (NOS): neuronal NOS plays a role in synaptic plasticity and the central control blood pressure, inducible NOS is a critical player in host defense, and endothelial NOS preserves vascular health. CO is produced from heme by two distinct isoforms of heme oxygenase. Heme oxygenase-1 is a ubiquitously distributed and highly inducible isozyme that functions in an adaptive manner to maintain cellular redox balance and function, while heme oxygenase-2 is a constitutively expressed isoform that serves a key role in neurotransmission. H S is largely generated from cysteine by three different enzymes (cystathionine-β-synthase, cystathionine-γ-lyase, and 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfur transferase) that exhibit selective tissue distribution. These three signaling gases elicit comparable cellular and physiological functions often involving similar molecular targets. Intriguingly, emerging work has documented a deficiency in circulating levels of signaling gases in patients with COVID-19 compared to non-infected controls. Their low availability in COVID-19 may reflect reduced synthesis in response to inflammation and/or increased consumption by reactive oxygen species. Furthermore, diminished NO and H S levels have been identified as independent prognostic biomarkers of COVID-19 infection.\n\nSignaling gases possess a broad spectrum of antiviral activity and serving as part of the innate immune system they constitute the first line of defense against invading pathogens. NO directly inhibits the replication and entry of viruses into the host by modifying the viral replication machinery or host proteins. Recently, NO was shown to inhibit the replication of SARS-CoV-2 and the cytopathic effect of the virus. Enzymatic assays suggest that the antiviral effect is mediated via the inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 3CL protease activity via the nitration of cysteine in the active site of the enzyme. Phase 2 clinical studies have also corroborated the antiviral action of NO in patients with mild COVID-19. H S also acts as a direct antiviral agent against a series of enveloped RNA viruses by inhibiting membrane fusion and replication and may be effective against SARS-CoV-2 by suppressing the expression of transmembrane protease serine 2, a surface protein involved in viral entry. Furthermore, CO inhibits the replication of viruses by activating the cellular 3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate/protein kinase G signaling pathway and repressing the activation of nuclear factor-κΒ. Thus, the use of signaling gases may be beneficial in fighting the initial stages of SARS-CoV-2 infection.\n\nThe vascular dysfunction and organ damage that occurs in severe COVID-19 is triggered by the onset of a cytokine storm that unleashes an uncontrolled wave of proinflammatory cytokine production and inflammation. Thus, strategies that moderate the force of this inflammatory storm represent a promising option for reducing the severity of disease. Significantly, signaling gases may dampen the hyperinflammation seen in patients with severe COVID-19. All three gases elicit potent anti-inflammatory effects and promote the repair of injured tissues. They suppress the synthesis of a wide range of pro-inflammatory cytokines by blocking the activation of nuclear factor-κΒ and stimulate the expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-10. In addition, they downregulate the expression of adhesion molecules on both endothelium and leukocytes, and prevent the recruitment, infiltration, and activation of leukocytes within blood vessels. They also support the resolution of inflammation by stimulating the formation of a host of pro-resolution mediators. These gases also induce the repolarization of pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages to the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype that drives tissue repair. By blocking apoptosis, NO, CO, and H S also limits the extent of tissue damage caused by an inflammatory and oxidative environment.\n\nA principal cellular target of the cytokine storm is the vascular endothelium. Pro-inflammatory mediators increase vascular permeability, induces capillary leakage, and unleashes another barrage of inflammatory cytokine secretion by endothelial cells (ECs). They also stimulate leukocyte recruitment and infiltration and can lead to EC death, which further increases vascular permeability. The endothelium also undergoes a prothrombotic transformation involving the loss of the glycocalyx and the synthesis of various effectors that stimulate platelet adhesion, complement activation, and fibrin formation. In addition, the inflammatory environment increases oxidative stress and reduces NO bioavailability resulting in impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation. Endothelial injury and dysfunction are widespread encompassing many organs and may be the underlying mechanism for both pulmonary and extrapulmonary symptoms of COVID-19. In the lung, COVID-19-induced endothelial damage and dysfunction compromises barrier function leading to capillary leak and pulmonary edema. EC death also causes loss of vascular integrity resulting in alveolar hemorrhage, while EC malfunction stimulates thrombosis and fibrin formation causing vascular occlusion and ultimately producing respiratory failure.\n\nNotably, all three gasotransmitters elicit beneficial effects in the circulation and lung. They all act as vasodilators and increase NO bioavailability by elevating endothelial NOS expression and/or decreasing oxidative stress. In addition, they restore endothelium-dependent vasodilation in various pathological states and prevent damage to ECs exposed to various inimical stimuli. Moreover, potent antithrombotic effects have been noted with NO, CO, and H S in several preclinical models of thrombosis. In the lung, all three gases improve ventilation by serving as bronchodilators. They also preserve epithelial barrier function by limiting apoptosis and reduce lung injury during mechanical ventilation. This latter point is noteworthy as many hospitalized patients with COVID-19 require invasive mechanical ventilation which comes with a higher risk of lung damage, thrombosis, secondary infection, and mortality. Strikingly, these three gases evoke salutary effects in animal models of infection, inflammation, acute lung injury, and cardiovascular disease, underscoring the potential therapeutic importance of restoring signaling gas levels in COVID-19 patients.\n\nMultiple approaches may be used to deliver signaling gases in COVID-19. Inhaled NO is approved for use in persistent pulmonary hypertension in newborns and has been granted emergency access by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for use in COVID-19. Initial studies reported variable effects of inhaled NO on pulmonary function and outcomes in COVID-19 patients likely due to differences in dosage regimens, patient characteristics, and infection stage and severity. Several clinical trials are presently underway, and they may further clarify the dosing requirements and efficacy of inhaled NO in distinct COVID-19 patient populations. Although inhalation of CO has been effectively utilized in numerous animal studies, its translation to the clinic has lagged due to safety concerns and the use of suboptimal dosing regimens. Similar concerns related to toxicity and the feasibility of achieving adequate dosing schedules has hindered the clinical use of inhaled H S. In addition, gas inhalation therapy restricts the actions of gases to the lung and consequently does not address other organs that are affected by COVID-19. In this respect, the use of donor molecules provides an avenue for the systemic delivery of signaling gases. Numerous NO-, H S- and CO-releasing molecules have been synthesized that possess distinct biophysical properties, half-life, and release kinetics. In addition, gas-releasing molecules have been developed that liberate a controlled amount of gas in response to specific environmental stimuli. Furthermore, the use of organic-based click-and-release prodrugs that employ a chemical reaction to generate a specific gas provides another modality for systemic gas delivery. The incorporation of gases into polymeric nanoparticles that allows for stable, sustained release of the gas in a targeted manner is also under investigation. Moreover, dietary approaches may be utilized to raise circulating levels of NO and H S. Recent work has highlighted the utility of nitrate supplementation with beet juice to raise NO levels and improve endothelial function and blood pressure in patients with hypertension. Alternatively, ingestion of vegetables rich in organosulfur compounds such as garlic, onions, and broccoli may restore plasma H S levels in patients with COVID-19. The supplementation of diets with precursor amino acids such as arginine and cysteine may also be used to augment circulating concentrations of NO and H S, respectively.\n\nAside from increasing the concentration of signaling gases in COVID-19, the biological potency of these gases could be enhanced. Since many of the effects of these gases are mediated by a rise in intracellular 3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate, strategies that target this cyclic nucleotide may be helpful. In particular, the use of phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors such as sildenafil, which antagonizes the hydrolyses of 3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate, will potentiate the effects of signaling gases. Interestingly, sildenafil also stimulates the production of signaling gases making it a particularly attractive drug. In addition, highly potent stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase that amplify the biological actions of NO and CO have been developed and may be used in treating the respiratory and vascular complications associated with COVID-19. While targeting a single signaling gas may be effective, a more holistic approach that restores the concentration of all three signaling gases may be advantageous. However, the interaction between the signaling gases is extremely complex influencing both the synthesis and biological actions of the signaling gas necessitating close monitoring of patients receiving any of these gases. Finally, other gaseous molecules including ammonia, hydrogen gas, sulfur dioxide, and methane may also be impacted by COVID-19, and this could contribute to disease progression.\n\nIn conclusion, signaling gases represent a promising therapy to mitigate viral infection, inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, thrombosis, and organ failure in COVID-19. These gases can be given via multiple delivery vehicles, including inhalation, synthetic gas donors, gas-encapsulated nanoparticles, gas-boosting agents, and dietary supplementation. This gas-based remedy may provide a robust approach in preventing the devastating clinical consequences of this ongoing global pandemic.\n\n."}
